1872  line from the sea-two miles, there is a long flight of steps leading up to the temple. On each side is the image of Hatchiman, he is looking very warlike. In the temple are a number of apartments containing sacred treasures, some very old. On paying two bu for our party, we were allowed to gaze upon them, carvings, images, lacquered-ware, jeweled swords &c, but none very interesting to us. Resting awhile on the green terrace nearby, we proceeded on our journey still through the same lovely country, passing little villages, stared at and saluted politely by the people. At one village, we stopped to take jinrikishas and then along the Tokaido home, reaching Yokohama after sunset and arriving at Mrs. Pruyn's about 6 o'clock. I was glad to see something homelike once more after the low houses, the ugly thatched roofs, and the dark faces we had seen. After supper retired and early the next morning took the train for Yedo and reached the place I am to call home about 11:15 o'clock. 
 Aug 17 4 spent the day unpacking, and arranging things, excessively warm, we take our meals next door at Mrs. Dr Veeder's, but in a few weeks we expect 701 Monday 
 Aug 19th, Willie went to the College at 7 o'clock this morning, and stayed until 12. This is the custom during the hot weather. I wrote letters home, and studied a little Japanese, in the afternoon walked out. Tuesday, wrote long letters to the Mitchells & home, practiced on Mrs. Veeder's piano, sewed a little, then took a walk down the Tokaido with Willie and Mr. Scott, enjoying the curious sights that it is almost impossible to describe, took jinrikisha and came home to tea. Found we had received calls from Mr, Mrs, and Miss Anepennig, the German professor and family, met them in the Compound walking and found them quite pleasant, speaking English perfectly. After supper Mr. & Mrs. Wilson spent the evening with us, they are a handsome couple and she is very lovely. After they had gone, we made up an order for provisions to send to San Francisco. Mr. Yamagimoto called to see me and took dinner with us. It is pleasant to meet well-known faces here. I have still in my mind the loveliest pictures of this fair land and although many things at first sight are disquieting, yet I think I am getting accustomed to them and try to look on the fairest side.
103 painted black, as nearly everything is in Japan, the windows were covered with wooden gratings from which peeped forth some pretty young, occasionally, and often an ugly, sullen face, boy or man or old woman. Inside the gates, we had glimpses of neat gardens, the stone walks were all swept clean and the road in front was watered & brushed up. We saw many boats going along the river and we stood on the bridge to watch them, propelled by long poles, in the hands of the coolies. Shrubbery covered the banks, thick and green. The people gazed at us with curious looks, but I am getting so accustomed to their gaze, that I do not mind it. We rode home in jinrikishas, stopped a few moments at Mrs. Wilson's, took tea and stayed awhile in Mrs. Veeder's. Mr. and Mrs. Verbeck paid us a visit. Mr. Scott spent the evening with us. The Mail goes out today. Just outside of our enclosure is a wide street, then the deep moat and high stone walls of the castle. On this street, hundreds of people travel, on horseback, in jinrikishas, some in American costume, some in part, samurai without their swords, women and girls. Plenty of coolies 105 Willie bought a curio in the shape of a bronze eleant. Mr. Scott was out on horseback, met Mr. and Mrs. Wilson and little Harry going out to dine. Rode through the Yokoide and whenever we stopped, a vast crowd of people would gather around to see the foreigner, but they are quiet and never trouble me and I am glad they enjoy it. This morning studied a little Japanese, Clarkie went to the Monbu-shu, and to call on Asahi who returned home some months ago, owing to ill health. Engaged a Japanese girl as servant. We dine today at Verbecks. Saturday 24th (
 Aug) 1872 Had a pleasant time at Verbecks, met all the children and several Japanese, went out walking and bought some curios: two handsome cabinets, some bronzes, and a temple. As we stood in the shop or rather outside, a crowd of people about 250 in number gathered around us with curious faces and I was inspected from sole to crown, but they were all quiet & well-behaved. We ordered a jinrikisha and rode home, the weather much cooler and the sunset glorious. Steamer expected in today. On Saturday after dinner Dr Veeder, and his two little daughters, Mr. Clark, Willie & myself, with our two guards, betto and coolies pulling the jinrikishas, went to visit the graves of the renowned forty-seven Ronins. 1872 1872 
101 a large tomb, the resting place of their leader, and enclosed by a railing in one corner was the tomb of the chief's son, a lad of sixteen. A shrine in the opposite corner had incense burning before it and several Japanese were paying their tribute of devotion, by bowing and praying before it, and walking around, stopping before each grave with a deep bow and a prayer as I supposed. The ground is carefully swept and every part in nice order. As we came down the hill, we passed the little round well where the head was washed, a board above it has the inscription in Japanese characters, ‘This is the well where the head was washed, no hands or feet must be washed here.’ The Buddhist temple, which was in the same grounds, contained back of it a room, in which are the images of these 47 Ronins. The statues are of wood, with the faces painted, and I thought very life-like, the dresses richly lacquered and each hero is armed. Some have fallen to pieces, some loose legs and arms are lying around, and the remainder will soon come to pieces. The priests in the temple were chanting their prayers. One seated on a stool in front of the altar holding a white feather brush (so it seemed to me), the others ranged around. 
 109 carrying these in their hands and we understood that the day was the beginning of a month's festival and that part of the Temple was to be restored. When we came home our Mail was awaiting us and we spent the evening reading over the dear messages from home and I went to bed to dream of my home treasures and live all day Sunday in the atmosphere of home. ( August 10th) We spent a quiet Sabbath, when we arose in the morning the clouds were heavy and about 10 o'clock it began to rain steadily, but about 6 the storm increased and by 7 o'clock blew terribly - a regular typhoon, it was fearful. This morning I saw the fence near our house was almost entirely blown down, but the sun shone out clear and the weather is as warm as ever. Wrote to Willie Elliot and home. Tuesday morning 
 Aug 27th Yesterday afternoon Willie and I rode out to Ueno, the site once famous for its singular beauty, its temple and as the burying place of the old shoguns. The Imperial physicians reside here and we first paid a visit to Dr Hoffmann, then to the sacred grounds, now almost entirely in ruins. This spot was considered one of the most beautiful in Yedo, it is a vast park of grand old trees, firs and pines. 1874 
111 a pagoda, very high and showing evidence of great workmanship, the roof was of copper. In the grounds were two temples with red roofs, which seemed to be kept in repair, and worshippers were ascending the steps, we could hear the striking of the bell & the monotonous chant of the priests. Along the road were numerous sheds, where they sold tea and other Jap refreshments, some of the pretty girls invited us to come and take some tea. As we passed out and in the gate of entrance, we could observe marks of the great struggle that had taken place here only four years ago between the Mikado's troops and those of the Shogun. The last grand battle was fought here which 
 Decided the supremacy of the Mikado, the gates and trees are full of bullet holes and the woodwork is torn away in several places. The fate of the day was 
 Decided by two pieces of cannon which the Mikado's soldiers mounted on a tea-house, the temple was then burned, the grand halls and entrances, the bell tower destroyed and the place left to 
 Decay. Hyeno seemed still a very delightful place, cool and shaded after our hot ride through the crowded streets, it 44 babies 
113 from their goods. Capt. Doane narrowly escaped drowning in attempting to get ashore. This is the first accident on this line. Wednesday 
 Aug 21st The summer is almost over and we are already feeling the change of weather, it has been the hottest season known for some years at home. Yesterday wrote letters, went out in the afternoon, took a long walk inside the Castle grounds, bought a bronze curio, as usual a great crowd gathered around us, many of the children had sore eyes, some blind in one eye and sores on their head, some looked healthy- enough but dirty - it was not a very nice neighborhood. In the evening Mr. came over to see us, stayed until 9 o'clock, then Willie, Mr. Clark and I went over to Mrs. Wilson's for an hour, met Dr Hadjimoto, an old friend of Willie's in Fukui. I have also met Mr. Suda, the father of the youngest Jap girl in America. Friday 
 Aug 30th Yesterday morning we went in the 8 o'clock train to Yokohama, to attend a sale at Mr. Furniss's on the Bluff, where we obtained many nice articles for housekeeping. We took lunch at Dr Brown's, just opposite, met all the family, Miss Hattie who has just returned from Europe, her education finished. 
115 to dinner at Mr. Verbeck's, the party took jinrikishas in the afternoon and rode to several interesting places in Yedo. Mrs. Veeder, the children and I, in company with a young Japanese lady, went to the theatre at Osaka, we stayed about a quarter of an hour. The building is arranged in the same manner as ours at home, a vast space in the center and boxes each side or galleries with private boxes, then a sort of wide family circle, with galleries on the side. The place was crowded, the people packed as closely as possible, some were eating and drinking tea, others smoking. The stage was a rough affair, the actors came on the scene from the back part of the building and walked along a plank through the audience to the stage. No woman is allowed to act, female characters are represented by men in their costume and when the scene changes, the stage turns round bringing the new actors on the front. The actors were powdered and painted and seemed to talk in a stilted fashion like some of our own, but we soon became tired, the atmosphere was stifling, it was a warm day and every available spot was filled with human beings, old and young. 1878 21st Flower. Took a pleasant walk with Dr & Mrs. Millett. She has gone to China. Wednesday, 8th Today had a pleasant ride. Had a call from Mrs. Murray, also from Mr. Thompson who brought us the letter from the Japanese church, desiring union and not sectarianism, as the missionaries are trying to force the latter upon them. War has really broken out in the southern provinces. Saturday night On Thursday, Mrs. Wilson was over. Friday, Mr. Dallas called. We have been busy writing letters home. Tuesday, March 32 Dr. Brown spent Sunday with us, Feb. 22nd. Spent a quiet week, had several calls. Spent Friday evening at Murray's at a sewing company. They had Geishas, and all the Thiba & Kai Sel 70 friends were there. Mrs. Hepburn present. On Saturday, by invitation, went down to Yokohama and stayed until Monday at Mrs. Stone's. I had a very nice visit, took tea at Mrs. Pruyn's on Sunday, made a long call on Mrs. Miller, came up in the rain on Monday. Today Mrs. Eldredge and Mr. Day, Dr. & Mrs. Antisell and Mayor Tegima's father called. Went down the Toori with Willie. Thursday night, March 5th Last evening, dinner party at the Captain's. Today mail came in. One of my pupils asked to be married tomorrow night, and her bridal robes are foreign-made. 117 119 Friday Morning Sep 8th Yesterday spent an hour at Mrs. Veeder's practicing. Mrs. Wilson called about 10 o'clock in the afternoon. Willie and I went in our new jinrikisha to Asakusa to visit the garden and temples. As we reached the entrance, we got out and walked up the broad stone path, quite a distance. It was lined on each side with shops or booths, filled mostly with gaily colored toys for children, china shops, lacquer shops making a bright appearance. At the temple gateway were an immense number of pigeons, sacred birds that flew over and inside the temple. Stands on each side contained beans and rice for sale so that the worshippers might feed the pigeons. The temple is very large and painted red, the temple color. Inside was a very large altar containing the usual adornments, two large pots of brass with enormous brass flowers, a god or goddess & urns. But before the altar was a screen on which were thousands of spit-balls thrown there by the people. This is a part of their religious duty to throw these at the altar and the screen is put up to protect it. Numerous smaller gods were Wednesday Sep 4th. On Monday it rained very hard and I was busy arranging furniture, curtains, etc., but walked out a short distance, rode home. Yesterday was the dedication of the little church at Yokodji. Dr and Miss Brown, Miss Rider & Mr. Loomis came up here about 12 o'clock. They took tiffin at Mr. Verbeck's. Our goods from Yokohama arrived just as we were starting. It rained some all day long. The services began at 3:30 o'clock. Dr Syle, the English Episcopal minister, offered the first prayer, read a psalm and a hymn. Dr Veeder read the scripture lesson and an account of the church written by Willie. The building, lot, and organ cost $1,256, nearly one thousand of which was already paid, and a collection being taken up, $300 was raised, thus reducing the debt to $656. Dr Brown preached the sermon from Ezekiel 11:16, ‘Therefore say, Thus saith the Lord, Although I have cast them far off among the heathen, and although I have scattered them among the countries, yet will I be to them as a little sanctuary in the countries where they shall come.’ and offered the dedicatory prayer. Prof Scely Dr Brown mentioned in his sermon that just 12 years ago, he preached a sermon. 121 123 1872 in the moat. Saturday evening we spent at the Aopping's, the German professor's family- met his wife and sister, they came from Europe about the 20th of July and his wedding took place in Yokohama. Mr. Chipman was there also. Sunday, went to church, Dr. Veeder officiated, communion service after the sermon- many memories came crowding up and the face dearer than all others would appear, but I tried hard to keep my tears back and conquered, but my heart was almost bursting. In the afternoon, as usual, took a long walk, seeing the people, the stores, the workmen, making myself acquainted with Japanese life, bought some very fine grapes, rode home. About 7 o'clock, received the Mail, only two letters from home, one from Clarence telling me that he was married on the 20th of July, by the Rev. Edgar Levy to Miss Lizzie Ashworth, and that they are going to housekeeping in West Philadelphia in 
 October; another from Martha, they had just returned from from Cape May after a two weeks stay at the Sea View Cottage - all well. Spent the evening reading the papers. Mr. Scott & Mrs. Veeder called. This morning had the first meal in our new home and I shall have more to occupy fed with peas & beans that are blessed, and it is said that they are led every morning before the goddess, by the priests and she is asked whether she would not like to take a ride. I saw a young girl feeding the horses -one was white, the other a light bay. We went through a garden where I saw a great many of the dwarf trees and plants of which I had so often heard, houses with gardens front and back - clean and cool, forming pictures really very pretty and the most wonderful arrangements in fern and small trees. We bought a pine tree and another kind in small pots, the size of a teacup - only two or three inches high, growing finely. I saw some of the most curious growth - green growing on or out- of old stumps - all strange & unnatural looking - the dwarf fruit trees were very pretty. All kinds of amusements were going on as we went through, but as it was getting late, we reserved our visit to some of them for another time, music such as the Japs call music - wax - figures, shooting with arrows, blow-pipes &c. But it would require several visits to find out all about this great popular playground and god house Asakusa. Osa Rusa. 1872 125 Bringing us a letter of introduction from his step- father Dr. Syle, he wanted to take his meals with us, but as I am not fond of housekeeping arrangements and would rather be alone, we sent him to Mr. Veeder- Mr. Scott - last evening. Saturday, Sep 14th Yesterday, I was not at all well, walked out after 4 o'clock inside the castle and rode home. This morning, I practiced at Mrs. Veeder's, arranged our spare room, went outside the gate to see a funeral procession enter the castle. First, came the Mikado's bodyguard in green and red, on horseback, then foot soldiers, then officers, a number of high dignitaries dressed in white carrying branches of trees, then a boy covered with white velvet, carried on the shoulders of four men, then the hearse, containing the body, a small temple-shaped edifice, with the royal crest on it, then numerous soldiers and lancers. Mr. Yanagimoto came in with us and took dinner, and he informed us that it was the father of Asama. I was very sorry to hear it as he has another son in London, and it is very sad to lose one's parent and be far away. 127 1872 129 Afterward, we went out for a walk to the Audan and back, along the Castle moat. In the evening, called on Dr. & Mrs. Veeder and the Wilsons, found Mr. Stout there. On Monday morning, Mrs. Stouts breakfasted with us. Willie went down to Yokohama to attend the Convention and returned early on Tuesday morning. We walked down the Tocaido and made a few purchases. Tuesday, Miss Davidson, Mr. Scott, and I went to Asakusa. I saw again the temple, but we visited the wax-works this time. They are remarkably life-like and very interesting. The scenes represent miracles affected by the power of the great goddess Kannon. On Tuesday, I was occupied all the morning, visited Mrs. Veeder's school, went in the afternoon to Shiba. It was a matsuri or festival day and the temple & grounds were thronged with people, gay streamers of red, blue, brown, or white, with Chinese or Japanese characters on them floated from every side. The temple was gaily 
 Decorated and along the wide stone walk from the large red gateway to the temple, booths were erected for the sale of toys, charms, sake, chestnuts, fruits, etc. Hundreds of people were going in and out, up and down the great stone steps. The priests inside were chanting, and beating the gong, the altar was 
 Decked generously with large paper flowers and golden 1877 to-day ‘Day of Judgment, Day of wonders. Death is struck and Nature quaking, All creation is awaking, To its Judge an answer making.’ This morning attended church at Yekiji, very few were there, Willie officiated. Before we started, we had a visit from Kimura's brother, who brought a present of a handsome cup and saucer, a small cup, a fan, and some pictures. This afternoon, Willie has gone to visit Dr. Fonblanque, who arrived by last steamer - Asahi and Mr. Katayama. My eyes are very much inflamed as they are lacquer- poisoned. Our new sideboard came home freshly lacquered and the odor made me quite sick and affected the eyes. Tuesday, Sep 17th Yesterday, we were invited out to dinner at Mr. Jeudan's, but I did not feel well enough to go owing to my eyes. Mr. & Mrs. Wilson were invited by him but did not go, we rode out in the afternoon. Several Japs called, this morning Mr. Hord, an old college friend of Willie's, came in. He is from Nagasaki. There is a convention to be held in Yokohama to organize missionary work in Japan and he is one of the delegates. 139 Sunday Morning 
 Oct 18th After three days of hard, incessant rain, the skies cleared, and all the world turned out to enjoy the delight ful change. As the opening of the Railroad was to take place on Saturday, thousands of people were out, but owing to the bad weather, it was postponed until tomorrow. But we rode down to Shiba and Shinbashi station, and I enjoyed my first view of Japan life in its glory, hundreds of beautifully dressed girls, women and children were in the streets with the male portions of the family, their hair neatly and often elaborately dressed and 
 Decorated, their faces and necks powdered, handsome silk dresses, lined and padded, scarlet, blue, and purple robes, inside petticoats of scarlet crape, the children were equally gorgeous and the crowd so dense that we could scarcely get along. At Shinbashi the 
 Decorations were very fine, arches of evergreen were erected all around the depot, hung with red and white lanterns, and the large ones interspersed with chrysanthemums, the garden adjoining the depot is very pretty & the depot itself, a neat tasteful building of stone. Along the road, lanterns and fanciful 
 Decorations were hung from the shops and houses, crowds were here also. We called at Hikidiji to see Ichi, he was sick in bed. We came home, walking and riding along the Tocaido. On 137 in their finest attire, priests, children, dogs, houses. A scene not soon to be forgotten. Wednesday 
 Oct 9th On Saturday afternoon, we took a long walk over the castle bridge, along the moat, into the Tocaido, then through long side streets, more thickly populated than any I have yet been in, followed by an immense crowd of children for a long distance, rode up to Asakusa, made some purchases in beautifully carved bamboo work, some ivory cuttings, and then home. It was quite dark when we turned away from the temple, and it was the first time I had ever been in the streets of Yedo at night, the shops lit by lanterns, the large tea houses crowded with people eating and drinking, the lanterns carried by pedestrians and riders made a lively scene in this grim old city. Sunday morning, Willie walked to church, and I rode in the jinrikisha alone. Willie preached his sermon ‘One is your Master even Christ’ and what a host of mem ories it called up to him and to me. The first time I ever heard him preach was in the 17th St church, that very sermon, Mother was there, proud and happy. Aunt Scott said with pride and joy that if that was his creed, she knew he had begun right. Mag & Welly & my dear sisters all present. What a great change, our 135 1872 the wall in small cases covered with glass. round The red god of hell seemed to be often represented. The large temple, cool and clean, contained the usual altars, images, lanterns, bells, etc. A nice old priest was chanting his prayers but came as we approached, handing us the hibachi. As we didn't smoke, we gave him a sinjo, after looking around. The temple seemed to be very old, a large number of votive tablets were hung around, and in front over the porch, an enormous sword. At the top of the long flight of stone steps leading to the temple was a most hideous squatting figure in bronze with an enormous nose. He held a large bell in his hand and to it were tied the prayers written. On each side were the great red monsters that guard the entrance to many temples, protected as usual by a network of rope and covered with spitballs thrown by the worshippers. If these chewed up pieces stick to the statue, it is a favorable omen, if they fall, the prayer is not accepted. Two great dogs, protected by this network, were at a little distance back, and along the sides of the walk, several smaller ones were ranged on pedestals. Incense was burning before some of the shrines, flowers, stones, or money lay before them. Near the temple 1872 133 and flute, we had a chapter read, and a prayer offered and then went home, guided by our lanterns. This morning they left about half past eight. Sent off our Mail today. 
Wednesday  Oct 3, 1872 It has been raining for two days, and even now the clouds seem heavy, and the sun tries to peep out a little. I have been in the house since Sunday, sewing, reading, and writing, seeing no one, thinking of home and Mother very often of the day. Her dying words, her dying looks never leave me, and I dream of them at night as I see them through the day. Asahi sent a note asking Willie to have his photograph taken and inviting me to come with him. Saturday 
 Oct 6th The rain still kept on until yesterday when the sun rose in glory. Thursday morning Willie went to Yokohama and I spent part of the day, taking dinner with Mrs. Veeder, studied some Japanese, and read Irving's History of New York. Yesterday after making a pudding (experiment), Willie & I went in the jinrikisha to the Temple of Fudo-Sama at the little village of Meguro, about five miles from Nanko. The roads were not in very good condition, but we enjoyed being out once again in the sunlight. We rode through lanes bordered by neatly trimmed hedges of evergreen, passing little villages with 1872 131 As everywhere, the ground was thickly covered with smooth stones, and the trees were thick and dark around. Ranged along in regular order, were other temples, reliquaries, and tombs of the same Rulers, all carved and gilded, painted and colored in Eastern style. I have not seen anything so far as neat and as grand. Some of the Shoguns are buried at Ueno and some at Nikko, and at the latter place, the temples are still larger and more magnificent. To-day it is raining hard, the Steamer is in and we are expecting our Mail. Mr. Washington and Mr. Scott spent last evening with us. Saturday morning Sep 28th, Our letters and papers arrived and all are well at home. Martha and Mary were boarding out the summer weeks at Cousin Matilda's, Ida and her husband being away, traveling. Aunt Scott is very weak and Aunt Sib has a fever, while Aunt Hannah was with the family at Atlantic City. Maggie Scott still at Cape May. We enjoyed reading over the dear messages of love and seemed to be very close to home. We could not go out all day on account of the rain, except to call at Mrs. Veeder's, we also took tea with her on Friday, where we met Dr. Grey and Mr. Washington and spent a very agreeable evening. Lieutenant-Colonel Cressy, Dr. Grey, and Mr. Serl spent Wednesday evening here. On Friday Miss Davidson returned home, in the company with Mr. Washington, in the 4 o'clock train. 1872 141 looked at us long and curiously, then bowed and of course we did the same. He has an earnest intelligent countenance, and seemed just as curious and eager to have a good look at the foreign lady as any other Jap. Many dignitaries of the Court in carriages followed, then others of the nobility on horseback, then the cavalry. Several regiments were stationed by the roadside, we drove down rapidly to Shinbasi and found there an immense crowd, through which we had great difficulty to make our way to the gate of entrance. However, we succeeded, our red tickets admitting us and when we reached the station found that the cortege had arrived rather late and they had entered the cars, which were just about starting. A band of 8 music was playing and the whole train was soon out of sight. We walked around seeing our friends, I suppose all the foreigners in Yedo were present. The depot was covered with handsome matting and a throne was erected at one end for the Mikado. After seeing everything around, the handsome 
 Decorations, the high officers in their peculiar dress, we rode home. Mr. Yangimoto, Dr Hajimoto, the Prince of Echizen and others all stopped to speak with us. They wore dress of flowered silk, of various colors, high long black hats of paper or silk with a white band around them, hanging down in long streamers behind. Many wore 1872 243 Mikado dined alone, had a handsome armchair, in front of it his table, his fire boy at the side and on a buffet were his forks, spoons, knives &c all of solid gold and also several large deep dishes of the same metal. The officers were very polite and after we had seen the palace, we walked out into the garden, which was filled with people walking, little green mounds, fantastically shaped trees, streams covered with rustic bridges, shady walks and above all a grand view of the whole bay of Yedo, with the forts in the distance, the junks with their queer shaped sails, the mountains hazy and purple- opposite. Yokohama off in the distance southward, flocks of snow-white birds peculiar to Japan flying through the clear atmosphere like angels, a pure quiet scene of perfect beauty, we steam about swiftly along, no noise, all calm, quiet and exquisitely lovely. All through this great day, a grand day for Japan - I have noticed that the people are perfectly polite, quiet, and peaceful in great numbers as in small, no drunkenness anywhere. As we rode home, we passed a number where of processions, very curious, very odd to my eyes. A large number of young girls dressed in garments, singing as they went along, then a number in purple and white dresses, with powdered and painted faces and followed by servants (seemingly) carrying large umbrellas over their heads. 
245 and spent the evening at Mrs. Verbeck's with Veeders, McCartees, Mr. Schink. Sunday it rained hard, as it seems to do every Sunday, Mr. Carrothers preached. Spent Sunday evening at Dr. Veeder's, singing sacred music. Mrs. S. left early on Monday morning. In the afternoon, we called on Mrs. Carrothers at Tsukiji. Yesterday, Willie, Mr. Scott & I rode to Ogee, walked on the hill from whence we obtained a lovely view, visited the teahouses and gardens. We rode through roads bordered by beautiful hedges, past a large number of gardens, saw the tea plant, camellias in bloom, and plenty of rice. Last week one day, had a ride on Mrs. Verbeck's Arabian, around the castle with Mr. Scott, the first time I have had a horseback ride for some years. Mrs. and Miss Hopping spent last evening. Our mail went down, steamer sails today. Dr. and Mrs. Mc Cartee are in their house. Mr. Wilson has been quite ill but is now better. Thursday 
 October 24th Took a long walk, bought some pictures on the Tokaido, read through the evening, this morning Dr. Brown, Dr. and Mrs. Hepburn called, the latter and Capt. Watson leave next week for America by way of India & Europe, expecting to be gone a year. This is the first time I have met them. The party went out with us, the Veeders, Dr. and Mrs. Mc Cartee to see the Review of the troops by the Mikado, as it is the Emperor's birthday. We 1872 
147 Took dinner with us, Dr. and Mrs. Hepburn with Mrs. Veeder. We had all enjoyed a delightful morning. After they had all left, I went over to see Mrs. Wilson & the baby, then to Mrs. Veeder's for an hour, then home, studied Japanese an hour in the evening. Mr. Scott came in as usual. Mr. Chipman called. Wednesday 
 Oct 30th On Saturday afternoon the mail came up, bringing news from home of good health generally, the sisters were still at Cousin Matilda's, Clarence and his wife had taken tea with them, the bride has a very handsome outfit. Martha & Mary think she is a very lovely little girl, she is only seventeen years old. Letters from C. 22 & Mitchell. Sunday a clear day, Dr. Veeder preached. Monday and Tuesday I t
 Aught school for Mrs. Veeder who is in Yokohama, today it rained and I did not go. Called to see Mrs. Wilson on Monday. Sunday morning 
 Nov 3rd On Thursday a party of us went to visit an old Shinto temple, (Dr. & Mrs. Mc Cartee, Mr. Washington, the Veeder's and ourselves). We rode over the great bridge Ryogoku with its vast throng of people, its beggars and its praying men, and on about five miles. The temple grounds contain numerous trees, ponds, and camphor trees, and a stream of water runs through over which are two high arched bridges which we did not attempt to cross. 1872 
149 But we had a pleasant call. Madame does not know a word of English, but Mdlle Juliette knows a little. We then went to Dr. Mc Cartee's, where we remained until 11 o'clock. He is a Philadelphian, a nephew of Dr. Bethune, and a cousin of George Duffield. Mrs. Mc is a most lovely woman, they have a little Chinese girl whom they adopted at two years of age. She is now ten. Willie went to the meeting of the Asiatic Friday Society in Yokohama on Wednesday night. Mrs. Colgate Baker sent me an invitation to take tiffin with her on Friday. We went in on Friday in the 9 o'clock train, called at Mr. Chipman's, found him having a handsome suite of rooms furnished, went to see Miss and Mrs. Davidson, then called on Mrs. & Dr. Syle, met Miss Washington her daughter, who arrived in the last steamer. Went to Mrs. Baker's, where we met a Mrs. Bevel, a very agreeable German lady who bore little, if any trace of her nationality, saw Mrs. B's four children, tiffin at 12 - We ran over to call on Mrs. Pruyn, where we met Mrs. General Capron, a stately old lady with grey puffs. Also called at Dr. Elliot's, and met his wife and Miss Henguenborg, a missionary who came out in the last steamer to assist Miss Ridder in her school. Then to Dr. Brown's, all the family out except Miss Ridder, saw her, returned to Mrs. Baker's, awhile, She ordered the Tuesday 
 Nov 6 151 Spent Sunday evening at Mrs. Veeder's, Dr. Brown and the usual circle present, and we had some delightful music. Dr. B. is a sweet singer and understands music thoroughly. His mother composed that hymn so dear to me from childhood, ‘I love to steal awhile away’ and he sang the music. Yesterday, wrote letters home, went out for a long walk. Mr. Bonnell went to Yokohama this morning. Willie is trying to get him a position as Dr. Brown's assistant, as Mr. B. wishes to stay a while in Japan. Sunday 
 Nov 10th 1872 Just three months today since I landed in Japan and the Steamer China is due tomorrow again from San Francisco. Mr. Wright of the Idaho has been staying with us since yesterday, he is Hettie Alford's old friend's husband, Susy Perkins that was. We knew that he was here but not knowing either his name or position, I never expected to meet him, but the day that Capt. Watson dined with us, I men tioned the circumstance of his leaving home a few weeks after his marriage and of his little child born after he was here and the Capt. immediately informed us who the gentleman was, and we sent him an invi tation to come up. In the meantime, he had letters from home telling of us, and that my sisters had spent an evening with his 755 1872 753 Walked out several times with Dr. and Mrs. McCartee, called on Mrs. Wilson, Mrs. Veeder several times. Mrs. Veeder spent last evening here. Mr. Bonnell has accepted a position in Nagasaki (Mr. Stout's old place) and left on Wednesday. Mr. Chipman stopped all night on Thursday. The Grand Duke Alexei is now in Yedo. This morning a telegram in the Herald an- nounces the re-election of U.S. Grant to the pres idency of the U.S. Hurrah. Have been extremely busy in selecting and copying for the New Japan Reader. Friday 
 Nov 22nd 1872 Dr. Nelson preached for us last Sunday and read the full Episcopal service. He is a missionary at Shanghai; we had a larger congregation than usual as the weather was lovely, although the ground was muddy. In the afternoon, Mr. Poult White called; in the evening, we all met at Mr. Verbeck's, had sacred music. Mr. Nelson read prayers. On Tuesday, Mrs. Veeder and I 
 Decided to go to Yokohama, I spent the evening with her. We went in the nine o'clock train, did some shopping; I purchased a heavy beaver cloth sack for $14, some merino undershirts and etc. We walked a great deal. Mrs. Verbeck came in on the train with us on her way to the dentist. We went up to Dr. Brown's for tiffin. Wattie & Mrs. Brown only were at home. Mrs. B. came down to town 1872 Expressed their views and opinions, it was determined to form a Social and Literary Union on motion of Dr. Veeder. The idea of some was to have a more learned society, something on the style of the Royal Asiatic, but that was overruled and a lighter entertainment arranged: Essays, Poems, Readings, Music, Sandwiches and Tea, as they l
 Aughing ly said. The name is rather odd and long, being the Stotsugy Bashi Gomon Literary and Social Union, named in honor of the Bridge leading to the Castle, which is also the name of the last Shogun, Stotsugy Bashi. A committee was appointed consisting of a President (Dr. McCartee), a Recording Secretary (Mr. Scott), and a Corresponding Secretary (Mr. Rippung). Many interesting and witty remarks were elicited & all seemed to enjoy the evening. After business was over, we had some music & dis persed. Monsieur, Madame, and Mademoiselle L'Epissier called on Friday afternoon. I took my German lesson yesterday morning. This morning went to church, Mr. Carrothers preached. This afternoon rode to a distant and curious temple; on our way back, visited the temple of the Mother of the Tokugawa family, and inside of it, the royal quarters of the female members of the race. Mr. S- called this evening. 759 was present, also Mr. Yanagimoto and several officers. I believe thirty-three persons were present. This morning Mrs. Pruyn went down with our party. We made some purchases in Yokohama, I met Mrs. Baker at Schivasty, saw several other friends, walked in Curis St, bought some fans, returned in the 2 o'clock train, have just had dinner. Some Japanese boys were calling on us. The shops in Yokohama are dressed for Christmas, but everything is double the price it is at home. We expect to go in again on Saturday to attend the meeting of the Royal Asiatic Society and spend the Sabbath at Mrs. Baker's. Friday 
 Dec 13th: Yesterday we went to Iskidji with the McCartee's, saw Mrs. Carrothers. Today threatens rain, but I went around the Castle. Made Little- Thai a Christmas gift of a Bible. We are very much interested in searching out the old and new streets of Yedo, by means of old maps, one 200 years old, old Japanese books, and new maps. Nakano reads and interprets. The Streets of Yedo form the subject of the paper to be read before the Royal Asiatic Society and will be sent also to the Independent. It is very interesting to trace the growth of this vast city from a collection of small villages to the Capital of the Empire, and thus retain a record of their civilization, and old customs which are rapidly disappearing. An order has been 757 Then we returned home, found Dr. Elliot & Miss 87 here, spent the evening partly with Mrs. Wilson & Mrs. Veeder. Dr. Veeder preached on Sunday (communion). We all walked home together from Iskidji, as it was such an exquisitely lovely day. Walked over to the old Citadel after lunch. Several Japs called. We all dined with Mrs. Veeder at 6 o'clock, then spent the evening at Dr. Verbeck's. Our friends left on Monday morning. Mr. Chipman dropped in a moment. Rain again, took a walk, saw the new and handsome house of the great Yedo banker, and several new stores that are in process of erection. Mr. Washington was with us. Busy writing letters today. Tuesday 
 Dec 6th 1872 Rain all day Tuesday, felt very unwell, cleared on Wednesday, took my German lesson, rode out with Dr. and Mrs. McCartee to Atago Yama. The roads were very bad and yet we were glad to get out. Yesterday took a long ride around the Castle. Mr. Van Capron, Mr. and Mrs. Colgate Baker called just at 12 o'clock. In the afternoon, took a long walk and ride. Dr. Gray called in the evening, also Mr. and Mrs. Wilson - Akai & Mrs. Veeder in the afternoon. Mr. Chipman was about & stayed until 10, looking over the Speller. Sent off our letters and draft home. 161 and Miss Ridder were at tea. Mr. Baker was suffering with a severe sprain, which he got in Yedo the day they called here. He was driving Mrs. Capron & the General, Mrs. Baker. The Madame was thrown out & badly bruised and scratched, but Mr. Baker sprained his ankle and when I was there, he was using crutches. I stayed until Monday at 3 o'clock, Willie left in the early train. After a very late breakfast, I ran over to see Mrs. Brown and Mrs. Pruyn, visited the new school house that they have built on the lot, saw Mrs. Pierson and Mrs. Brasby. There had been a most interesting service in the building, this morning Japanese men baptized, pupils of Mr. Pierson. Mrs. Pruyn has a young Japanese lady boarding with her. During my visit, Mrs. Baker played some choice classical music on her splendid Steinway; she is a thorough musician. After leaving, I called on Mrs. De Sing, who had been expecting me all the morning and was upset because I had forgotten to go. Saw Allie and Maud. Mrs. Baker took me to the depot. On the way, met Mr. Wright and he informed me of the very sudden death of Mr. Burgess. Met Mrs. Verbeck at the train, we came up together. I was glad to get home again, but the house was a very different creature, all ash and paint had disappeared. I had 873 167 New Year's Night, 
 Jan 1st, 1873 Last evening, Mr. Verbeck called to arrange about the presentation at Court which was to take place tomorrow. Mr. O, Dr. Veeder, Willie, and Mr. Morse were invited to visit the Mikado, warranted by a card of invitation. This morning, received calls from Mr. Munroe, Mr. Wilson, and Mary. Mr. & Mrs. Snipping, Mr. Schenk and Miss Snipping, who, to my great surprise, I learned are engaged to be married. They have been away on a trip for several days and on their return, according to German custom, he introduces her as his bride. Mr. Woly, Mr. House, and Dr. Grey. Mr. Scott. Dr. Veeder. Then, Willie went off to Court and I went over to Mrs. Veeder's afternoon - General Capron, Captain Batchelder, and Mr. Chipman. We received cards from the L'Epissiers, Verbecks, Miss To-Water, and Mlle. De Ruyter. Prof. Antisell also called, and Dr. McCartee. Willie returned after making his bow to Mik - (as they call him in jest), and started on his trip to Shidpuooka about 45 in company with Mr. Scott. I dined with Mrs. Veeder, several gentlemen called while I was there. Had music this evening, Mr. Chipman came over with me to my lonely home. Yokohama was gay with callers today. The day before New Year's, we walked down the Yokohama to see the 
 Decorations, the street was lined with 165 Quiet evening, after the day's excitement, I retired at 7:45, being very weary. Received two hugo-items flowers, a veil from Mr. Veeder. Altogether a very pleasant Christmas in Japan, filled with many memories of last year when my dear Mother was there and with her dying hands made the last tokens for the little children, Johnnie & Helen, and with her dying lips told them the story of the dear Savior's birth, as for years she had told it and sung it to her own boys and girls. Sweet Mother, ever faithful in the most perfect motherly love, thank God you are safe at home. Monday, 
 Dec 30th, 1872 On Friday, a large party of us visited the Go- Hyaku Rakan, the temple of the five hundred gods. Mr. Miller and Capt. Watson came up from Yokohama on Thursday and stayed all night, and accompanied us. We had a long ride, it was a glorious day, not at all cold, and I rode with Capt. Watson, while Willie went with Mr. Miller. The two temples were old, tumbled-down-looking places, containing the old gods or sages of every part of Japan. In the center is O. Shaka-Sama, and around him the 500, whom he converted, and who, after dedicating themselves to the gods on earth, became Siso Samas, or gods of the earth when they left it. They are supposed to have charge 163 per manin, we called on Mr. & Mrs. Holt, Gen & Mrs. Capron On Saturday, I went with Mrs. Veeder to Yokohama to buy some Christmas things. We were busy in the stores until nearly 3 o'clock, came up by 4. On Sunday, Mr. Veeder preached, 25 Japs were present. Rode out in the afternoon. On Monday, took my German lesson, called on Mrs. Wilson & Veeder. Monday evening was the second meeting of the Social Union and was held at Dr. Veeder's. Willie read his ‘Streets and Street Names of Yedo.’ We had a very nice evening. Bishop Williams of Nagasaki was present and Mr. Wasson of the Scientific Com mission from Leso. On Tuesday, all day, I was busy making Christmas cakes, at least I was a looker-on, for my very kind friend Mrs. Veeder made me at least six at her house. We had received tickets to visit the grand exhi bition of articles to be sent to the Vienna exposi tion, and we all went. It was held in the old Satsuma Yashiki and was a very interesting place to visit. Lacquer, porcelain, native dressed fruits, vegetable productions, minerals, silks, etc., all beautifully arranged. Many foreigners were there. We made some purchases on the Tori afterwards. Met the Antisells. Christmas Eve. Prof. Antisell and Mr. Munro called. The boys dressed the parlors and 169 Family dined at Capt. Batchelder's. This morning I invited Jennie and Gussie over to spend the day, and they have been having a merry time. This afternoon, Tomai and Emma are here and I am letting them enjoy themselves as they please. Have been reading the Adventures of a Falcon in the Eclectic. Took my German lesson. Wednesday, 
 Jan 8th, 1873 On Sunday went down to church, had our little class at Mrs. Veeder's, Mr. Arthur Bellamy called on Willie, I saw him at S.S. Stayed to dinner. Dr. Grey there also, at 6 o'clock we all went to Dr. Mc- Cartee's for a prayer meeting, which was very interesting. Our first Sabbath in the New Year dedicated by Communion, and Prayer. The children were all present. On Monday, Blanche & I went to the Depot to meet Lohmme and Willie with their nurse, she left them and we all came up home, had lunch, then with Mrs. Veeder and the children, all went to Hisakasu, saw the wax-works, the children spent the evening playing games, and drawing. Johnnie is a very interesting boy and I enjoyed his odd speeches, and the voices of the children made me feel at home once more, and gave me a glimpse of our own childhood in the days gone by. On Tuesday, received another telegram from Willie, we all went out for a walk, the children 1870 1872 171 Had a dinner engagement, and we went to the meeting of the Asiatic Society, heard a paper on Fujiyama, met many friends. Had a long talk around the fire with Mr. & Mrs. Baker when we got home, next morning went to church, enjoyed the grand old service with a heart full of remembrances of the year just past. One year ago, and it was our Mother's last Sabbath on earth, how vividly comes every hour of that day in my memory, how I bathed her, as it were anointing her for her burial, how happy she felt and how she tried to sing her dear old hymns. Dr. Pacey spent the morning with us, and in the afternoon I went to church leaving her with my sisters, Libbie & Mrs. Frear came down & dear Mother grew worse & when I came home, she kissed me so earnestly, sainted precious Mother, few have had such a Mother, thank God she is singing in the New Jerusalem where the inhabitants are no longer sick. Mr. Munroe was at church, and came up to dinner. Another long talk in the Library. Dr. Doane & his wife called. Willie 
 Decided to go up on the last train & I accompanied him, after our very pleasant visit, with new life and reached our own home about 7 o'clock, always glad to get back to it. Mail expected every hour, not in yet. Wednesday, 
 Jan 15th, 1873 Mrs. Talbot called to see me on Monday and asked me to teach her little son and daughter 173 Pleasant visit, called on Mrs. Dr. Simmons. Mr. Munroe came up with us, quite a number of Yedoites were down. Saturday Evening, Feb 1st, 1873 Last Sunday, Willie preached, had my usual class. Mrs. Lyle came up on Monday, stayed with Mrs. Mc Cartee until this morning. She & Dr. & wife dined with me on Thursday. Tuesday evening, the sociable met at Mr. Snipping's, Mr. Schenk read a paper describing his ascent of Fujiyama. Dr. & Mrs. Hoffman, Dean and Mrs. Miller from Uyeno were present, dancing, music as usual, all spent a delightful evening. Today, went to Yokohama, lunched at Mr. Lyle's, brought home my dress, it cost me $60, like it pretty well. Went down with Mr. Verbeck - Willie went down this afternoon on the 3 o'clock train. Friday, Feb 7th, 1873 On Sunday, Dr. Veeder preached, we all walked home, 52 persons were present, the largest congregation we have had yet. Sunday school in the afternoon, prayer meeting at Mr. Verbeek's in the evening. I felt very sad and homesick all day, the week has passed as usual, Mrs. Snipping spent about an hour with me yesterday, talking in German. Willie & I rode to Yokodaji. The Society meets here next Tuesday night. Steamer expected, not in yet. Mr. Shipman stayed all night last night with us. We have been enjoying most delightful weather, clear and dry, and not too cold. Day after day, almost perfect. Called on Mr. & Mrs. Soly & the Spicers this week. 1873 475 ment &c. On Wednesday, received a call from Mr. Pruyn and Mrs. Gen. Ospron. Mrs. Pruyn was stopping with the latter and came up to tell me she should spend some time with me. They came up on Wednesday evening; we had a pleasant talk. Mrs. Wilson invited us there to tiffin on Thursday. Mrs. P visited Mrs. Olmsted's school & made some calls after tiffin, where we met Mr. House who has resigned his position at Honko and intends going home on the next steamers. We went out to look in the shops on the Fair. Mrs. Pruyn made a few purchases. I had a cold & it became much worse; I came home quite sick. She returned to Yokohama. Mr. & Mrs. Holt called. Yesterday, we dined in company with Mr. and Mrs. Perlbeck at Dr. McCartee's, spent a pleasant evening. Today, took a two-hour German lesson. All very lovely and although I keep myself busy, yet I cannot get accustomed to such a very quiet household. Willie talks but little. I sigh for the home voices, the bustle, the dear old restless motion of a large family, but I must bear it. I hope contentedly, but with all the pleasant friends, I miss keenly the loved ones at home, and no matter how long I live there, I know I will. Monday 18th Willie went to Yokohama to attend the meeting of the Asiatic Society. I called at Mrs. McCartee's to get the gazette, then at Mrs. Olmsted's and she persuaded me to stay there for dinner, as Willie was 1873 177 Tuesday night, Feb 20th, I have written many letters home. On Tuesday evening, I attended a sale at Mr. House's and purchased some articles. Wednesday, I spent an hour at Mrs. Veeder's school. I have learned that they wish us to teach 8 hours a day for the same sum, but we have both refused. Mr. S. spent the evening, today he rode to Yekyi or walked there and rode home. Mr. Thompson was with us. Mrs. Carruthers is in a part of her new house, which is a very nice one. I have sent a draft home for my spring clothes. Mr. House goes on Monday, and will call on the listers. Sunday, Feb 23rd. Yesterday morning, Mr. House and the two students who are going with him to America breakfasted with us. Rojima and Mitshure. Miss Kurpping and Mr. Scott spent Friday evening. I took a ride after my German, and as it was Washington's birthday, the school had a half-day holiday. Willie and I had a ride and walk of 25 hours. I read some of Virgil's Eneid and ‘The Poet at the Breakfast Table’, and also reread the last letters to Willie. We sent several little packages by Mr. House to the Stevens and home. Raining this morning, but after the almost perfect weather we have been having, we cannot complain. Dr. and Mrs. Antirell called yesterday, and Mr. Washington on Friday. We were out both days. Sunday night. During the past week, the edicts against Christianity have all been removed. Willie noticed it during his walks out, and then we heard it through Peshine smith, and it was published in the Gazette on Friday. This morning in our little church, Mr. Sunday Morning March 10th 181 The Sociable was to have been held at Mr. Holy's, but as only a few were present, it was 
 Decided to postpone it for another week. However, we who were present stayed until nearly 10 o'clock, singing and talking. Mrs. Holy played the violin, Miss Anhhing, Mrs. Holy & others sung some beautiful German songs, Willie sang some old college songs and all joined in at times with coffee & cakes singing and conversation. We all spent a pleasant evening. The heaviest snow of the season fell that day, so only a few ventured out. Walked with Mrs. Mc Cartee on Friday after the fire, which occurred on Thursday night, just below the Rudan. Yesterday we visited Mr. Magomre, with Mrs. Chor. Spent an evening at the L'Epissiers, con versing in French. Took one German lesson. Miss teaches the Prince and Princess of Josa and is occupied five hours a day, so that she can give me but one hour a week. I'm so busy that I can study but little. Mrs. Bachong and Mr. Chipman called yesterday. Mr. Scott who generally drops in a few times a week. Mrs. Veeder called in the evening. Mrs. Wilson had the baby this morning. March 23rd The Mail went out at daylight this morning, we wrote letters in great haste. Have been busy all the week, not going out much. Mr. Verbeck called and Mr. Chipman, spent one evening at Mrs. Wilson's. March 28th Willie started off on a journey to the Hundred Valleys, a peninsula off to the southeast, to be gone a week. He went entirely alone. This evening is the meeting of the Bun Tr Hai at Mrs. Veeder's. Received a box of preserves raspberry syrup and candies from Mrs. Cleveland through fully done to the music of the samishen. After the dance, hot dishes all in Japanese style were brought in, fried and raw fish, salad, ginger sprouts, tofu & various other Japanese dishes with hot saki. We left at 10 amid the many delighted compliments & farewells of our entertainer. Reached home in time to attend the meeting of our Society which was held at Dr. Mc Cartee's. Mr. Shenk finished his account of Fujiyama & Dr. Mc Cartee read a short account of Japanese chronology. Miss Gordon was present, a lady who has lately come to Japan to make her way as a teacher of music I believe. Today Mrs. Vel
 Deck invited me there to dinner to meet all the French professors, at 7 1/2 this evening. Dined Saturday Night March. with Professors Maillot, Fontaine, Dyon and another whose name I have forgotten, got through with the long dinner and French conversation very well. Called on Madame L'Epissier, and she and Mademoiselle were here on Friday. Thursday called on Miss Gordon, Willie took her to Asakusa. Friday, Steamer in but owing to a misunderstanding did not get our letters until tonight. Rode out through the Castle with Mrs. McCartee, took my German lesson. tonight we're missing home, all were a happy Christmas and my heart is full of the dou ones. Received word that I was expected to begin my duties in the girls' school on Monday, my contract to date from March 1st. Mrs. Veeder will teach in the morning, I in the afternoon. 183 looked as well and talked as brightly as ever. She is going to Shanghai on Friday. Called on Mrs. De Long, then Mrs. Pruyns, stayed for dinner, visited the school where Mrs. Pearson and Erosby were teaching, Mrs. Co- took me down in the trap, came up with Messrs Scott, Wilson, today Mrs. Veeder, Dr & Mrs. Mrs.Cartee and ourselves went to Asakusa, visited the flower gardens, made some purchases, tonight Madame & Mademoiselle L'Epissier spent the evening, went over to Kuippings to look through the telescope, saw the moon and Venus. Tuesday April 83 Made some purchases last week on the Ton, a handsome doll for Helen, cabinets to send home by Mr. Wught, Spent Saturday morning packing. Cap. Watson & Cop Yerry, the latter of the Saco called on us. Sunday Willie preached or read one of Robertsons sermons. Yesterday was a holiday, being the birthday of Gin-mow Tenno - the first Mi kado. We took a long walk in the morning, bought numerous plum and sherry blossoms and jonquils, the trees are perfectly beautiful the cherry blossoms are out in perfection everywhere. I enjoyed it very much, did some sewing when I returned, then took a ride with Mrs. McCartee Saturday Night April 18. On Thursday Blanche Harper came up and is staying with me here, on Good Friday the McCartee's, Veeder's and ourselves went on a little picnic near Asakusa to see the cherry blossoms. 185 and the daisies and pansies dot the ground. The land is blooming with camellias of every shade, and everything is opening to life and beauty this spring. Dear Mother how she loved this season and the flowers. Yesterday was the anniversary of her marriage and last Sabbath of her birth. Monday Afternoon April 21st Last Sabbath Rev. Randolph and Mr. Munroe dined with us. Monday was a holiday, Mr. Verbeck left on Wednesday. On Saturday Dr. and Mrs. Brown came up and remained with us until this morning, we enjoyed the visit very much. Dr. Brown preached yesterday morning. Mr. Scott had several friends from Yokohama. Mrs. Seeder and the children took supper with us. Mrs. McCartee has been quite ill all the week but is much better today. Willie has just gone to Yokohama to bid farewell to Cap. Watson and attend a sociable at Mrs. Pruyn's this evening. Our letters went today. Thursday April 24th We sent a box home by Mr. Wright, who left in the Sepan with other naval officers. Willie spent Monday night on the steamer with Cap Faceman. Have read, rode, and walked and received visits as usual. Mrs. Pruyn expects to go to Shidzooka next Monday and I would like very much to go with her, but cannot very well leave my school. Sunday Morning April 27th Mrs. Wilson spent last evening, Mrs. D'Epissier and Matle Cililte and Mr. Scott - Friday evening. Mrs. McCartee called yesterday morning Mr. Verbeck in the afternoon. I practiced on the piano at Mrs. Tripping's The moats around us are being drained, great places are cut through for the water to run out and the beauty is fast disappearing. The bottom is a marsh of mud and moss. 187 bed. The Mikado had to take refuge with his mother the Empress Dowager. It is rumored that several of the Ladies of Honor were burned to death. It was also rumored that the Samurai men had raised an insurrection and set fire to the Palace. Thursday May 8th 1878 Yesterday we went in the Shoguns Castle, which unfortunately they are now demolishing, and ascended the highest tower there, from whence we had a splendid view of the whole city and the grounds of the palace, now desolate and covered with the ruins of the buildings, the fire made thorough work of everything, the top of the walls are burnt. But it is intended to build a new palace after European models, the whole with furniture to cost 5 millions and a half dollars. Sunday Morning May 11th Another week of loneliness and homesickness, with the flowers and the soft air some memories that clinch and fast and on Wednesday night I dreamed of my blessed Mother so vividly that she seemed to be about and around me and the thought that in all this great wide world I can never find her again is too bitter and I have suffered all the week in desolation of spirit, and longing for home. I have no real companionship here and I am longing for those who alone can give it to me. We sent our letters by the new steamer the Lang Se which went yesterday. Willie went down yesterday afternoon to attend the Asiatic Society. I rode to the Depotitas. 493 5 191 Mr. and Mrs. Brown, Mrs. May Colay and Mr. Thompson. The May's are Methodist missionaries and will establish themselves in Edo. The Rev. Dr. Norman of Washington with his wife also came with them in the steamer. Dr. Norman is making the tour of the world, appointed by the President to inspect all the U.S. consulates. On Sunday he preached for us and Mr. De Long and many others were present. Capt. Batchelor invited us to dine with him and we and Dr. Veeder made some of the party, and at the table Mr. De Long and Dr. Herman held a theological discussion. Yesterday according to promise Mr. and Mrs. Baker came up to stay overnight, after leaving we went out to visit several places, and the last was Hori-kiri, beautiful for the many flags that grow there, of every shade and variety. We reached home about 7 o'clock and found Dr. Norman, wife and young lady friend, Mrs. Hellie Bursell, whom we expected to dine with us. Our table just holds eight and our dinner was elaborate, prepared by the Chinese cook. The Bakers, and Mrs. Bursell stayed here over night and Mr. Scott accommodated Dr. and Mrs. Norman. This morning they came over to breakfast accompanied by Lieutenant Hellron of the U.S. Navy. After breakfast they all left and all is quiet again. I am very tired, but have enjoyed Mr. and Mrs. Baker's visit very much. Mr. McCartle and Mr. Oliphant were 189 and have new matting on the parlor and front hall. We look very nice. I am reading Goethe's Iphigenia Mrs. Yeelech & Mrs. Cartmann called yesterday. This morning Dr Veeder preached; a lovely day. Mail came on Monday, no box, all well. Tuesday May 21 Last evening a party of us went down to Thiba and spent a very pleasant evening, the Misses held their usual reception. Mrs. Yen. Capron, Prof Randolf were there. We all came up together. Mrs. Veeder met with a slight accident. Sunday Morning June 8 Last Sunday Mr. Syle was here and preached for us, Prayer meeting at our house. On Friday a party of us took a long ride out to the Go-ko-kuji Temple, through hedges and rice fields, a lovely road. Mr. & Mrs. Wilson & Dr Veeder on horseback, the rest in Jinrikishas. On Saturday we took another long ride and visited several temples returning by the Oi Tolly. Yesterday Mris Anipping and Mr. Schank were married in Yokohama by Mr. Bogle. The wedding was entirely private, no one in the Compound knew of it but myself. Miss R was over in the morning and told me of it. Willie was in Yokohama on Friday, called on Mrs. Baker, heard of the approaching marriage of Miss Ridder and Mr. E. Hothsay Miller. Sent our letters yesterday June 7. A steamer was expected in today, but heard last night it was not due until the 12th. We expect Mr. Wykoff, betrothed, out in the 197 Mountain passes were shaded by grand old trees and we rested on the summits in the wayside tea-houses, where as usual we were served with hot tea in small cups, and the tobacco box inevitably. The Tokaido, this great highway of the land is traveled over constantly and in every town there were large hotels where we rested during the day for dinner or for the night. They were clean and cool and we always had the best room, looking out on a little garden, arranged in Japanese fashion, with dwarf pine trees fantastically piled up and plants rocks growing out from between them, while a small pond lay at their foot, filled with goldfish. At one on the Wakone Mills, a cascade comes from a great height, tumbling over great rocks covered with moss and grasses, in terraces, down to a great pond at the over which is a lovely rustic foot, bridge and around it monuments, lanterns and thick dwarf trees. As we drew near the city of Kyoto, we found a slight change in the dress and manner of arranging the hair, and often in the speech of the people. We arrived at Kyoto on Thursday, July 26th in the 495 the Mon Bu Sho yesterday that his contract is not to be renewed, and he intends to bring suit against the Japanese for non-fulfillment of the last contract. We expect to start early on Friday morning on our summer journey. I am quite busy, making preparations. Wednesday, 
 August 13th, 1875. We returned from our journey on Monday night, having been absent just twenty four days. We left home on Friday afternoon, July 18th in the 5 o'clock train for Kanagawa, intending to go by way of the Tocaido and return by the Nakasendo. Yamada accompanied us and took charge of the baggage etc. We took jinrikishas to Totsuka about 10 miles and reached there about 10 o'clock, where we stayed all night and left very early, breakfasted from our lunch box at Fujisawa, took dinner at Odawara, and then over the mountains in kagos to Wakone, which we reached after sundown. Our hotel faced the lake, but I spent a sleepless night there, nearly devoured by fleas, having neglected to guard against their attacks as I in tended by using camphor plentifully. This however I did in the future and was not troubled again. We saw some foreigners at Wakone. We left And Mr. Autecell with the child. Spent Thursday evening at Dr. Veeder's calling on Mrs. Stevens from Yokohama who is visiting there. Mr. and Mrs. Hartee called on Friday and Mrs. Wilson, last evening Mr. Wilson. It has rained hard all week, we have been expecting the steamer all week also, with Prof. and Mrs. Murray and Miss Baird, not yet arrived. The Ordinance and Mdlle. De Ruyter called on Friday. I have read the Picnic Papers for the first time, this week. I am now reading ‘Hermann and Dorothea’. We are at church this morning, Dr. Veeder preached for us. Monday morning, July 1st. The steamer came in last Monday at 1 o'clock. Willie went down in the afternoon and remained all night. Mrs. Veeder and I went down on Tuesday, after doing some shopping. We saw Mrs. Murray at the International Hotel, saw Mrs. Baker, went up to Mrs. Pruyn's for dinner, there met Miss Baird and Mrs. Tonng marine, the latter a missionary. Mrs. Brew was expected to meet Mr. Wykoff immediately on her arrival and get married. She was therefore very disappointed when she found he could not arrive for some days yet. She returned with us to Edo and we took her to visit all the famous places, and on Friday afternoon Mr. Wykoff arrived, and on Saturday night July 2nd they were married by Rev. Dr. Veeder at our house. Mrs. Veeder, Mrs. Verbeck, Mr. and Mrs. Wilson, Mr. Scott, Dr. and Sunday noon. 199 Alongside were more of these tables placed in the river, but not occupied. On the bank were representation stands of various kinds and restaurants. Soon arranged and filled with watermelons, cantaloupes, fish, rice, cakes and all sorts of Japanese delicacies, while the tables were soon filled with family parties, rice students and a gay l
 Aughing chattering crowd. I sat and watched the scene as far as the eye could reach. Many men carved lanterns hung over these tables and slender the bridges spanned down the river until the whole stream was brilliant. The people came from over the bridge and down the steps, all well-dressed. Grave samurai with their two swords, little children with their gay dresses and a fan in their hand, giggling girls in elegant toilettes such as I had never seen in public in Edo, with their hair arranged in a most gorgeous and elaborate style, attended by servants, bearing a box containing their supper. Families and parties would engage these tables and after walking out to them on wide boards placed over the stream would establish themselves comfortably. 201 Family. At once, I was the guest of the state. We were met in this room by the chief officer of the city and shown through the palace and garden. Then after the usual salutations, bowings, etc., we were permitted to go. We went out to the ancient palace of the Mikado, where he had lived for hundreds of years, hidden from the gaze of the vulgar, none daring to look upon his sacred countenance, surrounded by his numerous wives and retainers. While the shogun held all the power and governed the kingdom. Outside the castle were the dwellings of the huge or relatives of the Mikado. This old capital, the sacred city of Japan, has a great history, and is the most prominent locality in Japan. While the Mikado resided here in luxury and idleness, having no real power, being the spiritual ruler of the kingdom, the city became filled with his descendants who nearly all entered the priesthood, so that temples and monasteries filled the city until it is said there are 6000. Indeed the temples in Kyoto are numerous and the streets filled with priests even now, who enter into and encourage all the amusements the people and wharf seems to constrain. 203 1 205 Japanese entertainment. We rode all over the town bought silk and crape, paid a visit to Mr. Ina ba's house, where we were introduced to his young betrothed, his aged Grandmother, and his stepmother. The house was very fine, large, and cool with a handsome garden in front and back, a large pond filled with the sacred white lotus. We had, as usual, sponge cake & tea, beer & hard boiled eggs. The old lady wore a long train and was got up very stylishly, the young one had her teeth blackened and her hair dressed as a married woman, although only be trothed, yet she is living in the house until the wedding. Again on Saturday morning, we started for on our long home ward journey and reached Nanaizawa Sat, high at in Romantane. Sux-Ang 31r The largest city in Worth Cpon - Here, We stopped at the only foreign house in the city, Dr. Shup. His wife speaks English quite well, And the Doctor French. She has been in Japan for two years and has not seen a foreign lady during all that time, Until I came. We remained at the 3rd Gint Resem ote Here all night and part of Monday ( Aug the) morning. Several of Willie's pupils, who were there and Are on a driving vacation, came to see him. After leaving this city, we went northward Along the shores. Hide oshi, when he invaded Korea, the con querors resolved to cut off the ears of their captured enemies and send the ghastly trophies home. And over the spot where they were buried, this monument is rais ed. We afterwards went to the enormous temple where the Exhibition was held, then to the Tudeso. One where the 33,333 gods are, and where the great bell of which the Hioto folks are so proud is kept. Numerous other un important temples we merely glanced at and then went shopping, buying dolls and some of the famous ware, fans, etc. We left on Monday afternoon, attended by a policeman, going to Oshi in kangos. Here we found a foreign-built hotel on the shores of Lake with long wide porches and veran Bawd, das, tables, chairs, and beds. And on the register were the names of many of our Yokohama, found Kobe, and Osaka friends. Lake Birva is the largest in Japan, and we were on it eight hours, upon a little steamer manned going by Japanese. We saw very few entirely village on the shores of the lake, the mountains sloped down to the water's edge. And as we neared the end, a bold rocky promontory stood out on one side and on the other an island mountain side filled with thousands of small pure. 207 furnished us with a guard for the next part of the road, again escorted us out of the town and parted with the same ceremony. The in front cleared the road of all guard pedestrians, oxen, carts &c and very often the people kneeled until we had passed. In some of the villages, the vast crowd stood in silence as we traversed the kneele long street, thus we were carefully attended and guarded all through our journey. On the Hoku Roku-Do, no lady had ever travelled before and as usual the togiriee created a great sensation. At one town we took boats to Kanazawa, on a shallow swift- flowing stream. The boats were very small, long and narrow like an Indian canoe, and propelled by long poles in the of the sendos, every little while hands we would skim down some falls of three or four feet. We went along swiftly as birds and it was the most delightful water ride I had had, for we had crossed the Owari Bay and rode along the Sea of and been up Lake Biwa and Japan rode in a caique boat, none of which liked as I did this swift flying in the little canoe. (She is going back now to 
 Aug 3.) We entered Kanazawa, attended by the 209 Visiting as it did that night and I have enjoyed it peace ever since. Our friends in the Compound had begun to return from their various trips. Dr. Elder & children from Shizooka and Tup, Mr. Scott and others from the ascent of Mt. Fuji, Mrs. Wilson and family from Yokohama. Wednesday 
 Aug 13 Dr. McCartee brought four newly arrived missionaries to see us yesterday, all of the Methodist mission, one for Yedo, another Tokohama, Nagasaki, and Wakodate. The weather is very warm, and we are expecting a typhoon. os Received by last mail news of the death of dear Aunt Scott who was buried June 2nd. Thursday 
 Aug 21st 73 Last week busy writing letters home and copy ing for Willie, on Sunday Dr. Aruman preached at Yokiji, on Monday Miss Crosby spent the day and in the afternoon we called on the Hemmans. On Tuesday Prof. Murray came to stay with us a few weeks until his house is finished. His wife is at Mrs. Pruyn's. Wednesday Mrs. Schenck called and brought me Schiller's Works which arrived from Germany. Mr. Chipman spent Tuesday evening. Called on the L'Epissiers. School began Tuesday morning. 211 Have been busy teaching three hours a day this week. Spent last evening at Wilson's and Mrs. McCartee's. Mrs. Baker gave a Croquet party on Tuesday; we were invited but the weather too threatening. Have been copying addresses for the press. Sunday Morning, Sep 7th Sep The mail came in yesterday and we did not get a single letter from home, but all our papers. I went with Mrs. Murray to her house yesterday and she is now there permanently. Mrs. Capron and Antisell called yesterday, Mrs. Verbeck on Friday. Dr. and Mrs. McBride on Thursday. Wednesday Night, Sep 10th On Monday went out with Mrs. Murray in her trap to shop on the Tori, as it blew up suddenly we hastened home. Yesterday called on Mrs. Apping & Mrs. Schenk. General and Mrs. Williams and Mr. Sam. Williams called about 5 o'clock. Mr. Holmes Wilson & Mr. Scott spent the evening. Mrs. McCartee called today. Some rain fell during the day. Sunday Morning, Sep 21st On last Saturday Willie and I went to Yokohama, called at Dr. Syle's, on Mr. and Mrs. Miller, and then went up to Mrs. Druyn's, where we met Mr. and Mrs. Loomis and Miss Youngman, who took tea. We remained until Monday night and enjoyed the visit very much, for they have a lovely home. There are sixteen children there now, all well and looking happy. We had prayers in the school house on Friday morning, all writing and reading the Bible, prayers. 1873 213 Among the Kami or gods and divine honors are to be paid to him. At Hiyeno, a great temple and festival drew thousands of people and Prof. Murray and wife and ourselves went together to visit the tombs of the seven shoguns who are buried there. They are opened only once a year and we improved the opportunity of seeing them. They are not so handsome as those at Shiba, but very elaborately gilded and carved. The priest was very polite. We met Mr. & Mrs. Wilson, Gen. & Mrs. Williams, and several Japanese friends. Thursday, called on Madame L. Spissier. Opened the cottage at Williams', Friday at Dr. McCartee's. Yesterday, Mr. & Mrs. Stone from Yokohama called. At two o'clock we went down to Ishikawacho to attend at the institution of the native church. This begins with the eight members of the Yokohama native church who reside in Yedo, and it is entirely a Japanese affair. The old elder from Yokohama conducted the services. The petition asking to found the church, the constitution, and the reasons were read with prayer and reading of the scriptures, and Mr. Thompson was asked to be acting pastor until they could get a native one. He thanked them and then, speaking in English to us, said that he accepted, not as a missionary or a clergyman, but as a brother, a man with human sympathies. Mr. Ballagh made an eloquent address, mostly in English. 
 September 26th 215 Last Sunday did not go to church as it rained, and it rained also on Monday. On Tuesday, it still rained very hard. I went to school but found only seven little girls. I left in two hours, and the storm increased until we had a typhoon, blowing down the compound fences, the picture off the new school roof, washing away bridges, stopping the trains, etc. But the scene set clear with a beautiful rainbow. However, the fine weather lasted only one day, and we improved it by having our photographs taken, I and my first class, Willie, Akai, Gen, and Mrs. Capiron, Miss Kilson called. Took a walk with Dr. and Mrs. Icsartse. Yesterday, a long rainy day. Mrs. Trapping called. Today, the mail, letters from home, from lng Esnd, Lannie had a little daughter that lived seven hours (a 7 months child). Martha and Mary had been to Cape May, also Father, Sheldon. Lizzie was boarding with them at Coy. Matilda's, but they were all to come in town Sep. t. Prof. Randolph called this afternoon. He expects to leave Tokyo in a week. Willie is not well with a severe cold. Had a call from Mrs. Murray on Wednesday. Sunday morning, Sep 28th: Yesterday, Miss Hervey stopped a few minutes on her way home. She had been staying since Wednesday at Prof. Murray's. Mr. and Mrs. Carruthers called from Tskiji, and we had a long call from Mrs. Verbeck. Otto Lott spent the evening. Just finished Dickson's Sappho. 1873 217 Willie has 
 Declined going to Rioto, and our talk and hearts tend homeward - homeward. Wrote letters & sent my photograph with the girls of my first class home. No Papa, Clarence, Martha, Aunt T., and Mr. C. N. Olin. Wednesday evening, 
 Oct 8th: On Sunday afternoon, took a walk up to Ranga yashiki. On Monday, called at Mrs. Williams', spent the evening at Mrs. Williams'. Then went to Uchida's and selected some photographs. On Tuesday, we dined in company with Mr. and Mrs. M Cartees at Prof. Murray's. Today, walked around the Castle. Great preparations are in order, all the roads cleaned, the new build ings 
 Decorated with evergreens and flowers, the flags of America, France, Germany, and Japan hung from every window, an immense one of Japan on the flagstaff. In front, a large arch and flowers. The walls are hung with greens, and all is excitement and bustle. Mr. Howells is coming up from Yokohama to dine with us. I have a special invitation from the Mom Bu Sho, but as no other lady is invited, I cannot go. Saturday, 
 Oct 11th, 1873 On Thursday morning, the Mikado made his appearance about 8 o'clock. The boys were standing on each side of the road, and the Professors and teachers at the door. Twelve of the highest officers in the kingdom were present, besides several of the royal family. Dr. Murray delivered an address. Experiments were performed by the pupils, an inspee Today evening 219 Mr. & Mrs. Long took farewell of the Mikado. Mr. Bingham was presented. Mr. Mon held a reception at Hama-go ten. Tomorrow, a grand dinner is given by the Ore Kado to the MonMu TSho at the new school. I am invited. Dinner very grand on Friday. Tuesday night, 
 Oct 21st: On Saturday, by invitation, we went down to Yokohama. Mr. and Mrs. Baker met us at the depot. Went to the English church on Sunday, saw all our friends. Spent the afternoon at Mrs. De Long's, came up in the evening. Mr. Scott and Mrs. Wilson spent the evening. Mrs. Baker expects to go home in February. Todlkai spent Monday with me, staying all night. Sent letters. Thursday night, 
 Oct 23rd: Mr. Charles Walcott Brooks and Mr. Liawond dined irnon with us last evening. Our dinner was a success and we enjoyed our guests very much. Today called on Mrs. Trapping, saw her baby, a lovely little girl, fat and healthy. Received a handsome pair of bronze vases and a set of Japanese china platter from Prof. and Mrs. Murray yesterday. Sunday morning: A son was born to Dr. Vedder on Friday, the 18th. In the afternoon, I rode out around the Shiro, met the Mc Carties, walked with them. Yesterday, called on the Murrays. Dr. M Cartie spent the evening. Lovely weather all the week. This morning, some rain. We have fires now and our house is as cozy and comfortable. Sogiura is appointed as officer of the fifth rank in the Mon Br Tho. Rev. Murray is very much pleased. Thursday morning, 
 Oct 30th: Went to church on Sunday, took a heavy cold, am still very miserable. Yen and Mrs. Williams called Monday evening. Her husband spent the evening. The steamer came in Sunday night. Mr. Verbeck returned. All well at home. Sallie 221 223 (Iucilatimn i pafes in mipasig rmg Puf. Murray's on Friday. This morning breakfasted at Iwakuras mansion. The breakfast was really an elaborate dinner. We were met at the entrance by fine and stately servants in foreign dress (dress coat & white gloves) who conducted us through a succession of rooms into the reception room, which was furnished with sofas, tables, and chairs. Here we met the gentlemen of the family and Mr. & Mrs. Capron. Presently, the daughters of the house came in, the eldest a most beautiful girl. hair her was arranged after the fashion of the ladies of the court, combed all back and spread out in two great wings behind, then gathered and hanging in a long lock below the waist. Her dress was a robe with a long train, over a pure white silk dress; under these, several white silk under dresses. A full plaited hakama of stiff scarlet silk completed the costume. It was the most elegant Japanese dress that I ever saw. Two young girls, aged 12 and 13, with short hakamas just covering the feet, and richly brocaded hair, congealed by heavy purple cords, came with them. Their hair was all combed back and tied at the nape of the neck with a white silk cord and flowing to the waist. The two smaller ones were dressed in the same style, their robes embroidered in gold thread. All wore flowers. The new dOctrine. Rev. Mr. Cochrane led the meeting. I met a number of newly married missionaries. On Monday morning learned the death of Dr. Doane. Dined at Mr. Sylis, came up on the three o'clock train. Saturday night, 
 Nov 5th, Mr. and Mrs. Wilson and Mrs. Scott spent Tuesday evening. Mr. Verbeck called. Friday had a holiday. Prof. Murray called. Mr. Brooks, Sooquira, and others called in the afternoon. Willie was out making calls on the Williams, Soperis, at the Raitakushi, etc. Spent the evening at Dr. M Cartie and Wilson's, met Misses Taylor and Chandler there. Today, Mr. Magome and Sooquira visited the school, also Mr. and Mrs. Ballagh. Mr. S as usual. Took a walk to Elyeno, rode back. Received an invitation to a reception at Mrs. Murray's to meet the American min and family. We expect to return home in the spring, Willie by way of China, India, the Dead Sea, and Europe, I by the Pacific as I came. Mr. Wouse has returned to Yapaur. Friday night, 
 Nov 14th, 1873 Willie went to see Mr. De Tong on Sunday. I went to church. In the afternoon, took a walk. Steamer arrived on Tuesday, all well at home. The Depburns had called, and Martha had seen them. Sallie Boster married. Yesterday, went to the reception at Prof. Murray's. Fifty were present and the location in pastes on index of khkadr rooms looked quite brilliant. Iwakura, Okubo, Katsawa, and Tanaka, with Mrs. Janaka, Suguira, and Aeahi, Judge Burgham, his two daughters, all the Yedo people, many groom 1873 225 Kind of bird. Rustic bridges, grottoes, small hills and stone steps. Cedar trees, flowers, chrysanthemums and a bird house. We all walked around the garden and after partaking of coffee and chatting a little, we left. It was a delightful visit and gave me a glimpse into the inner life of the higher classes that I have never yet had. Those gentle, high-bred quails in their ceremonial robes I enjoyed seeing very much. Wednesday Night 22nd 
 Nov. Mr.Chipman and about a half dozen others called on Saturday afternoon. After my return from Swakura's, I called on the Carruthers and Miss Parkes. Sunday attended church. Monday Mr. & Mrs. Murray, and Mrs. Summers called. Tuesday dined at Sen. Capron's, met Mr. and Mrs. Saper. We reached home about 9 o'clock, spent the remainder of the evening at Mrs. McCartie's where we met Mr. Monral. Today with Miss Mornay, Akai and her mother went to the silk store and made some purchases. We've just returned and had tea. Tomorrow is Thanksgiving Day. Saturday Afternoon Nous&h Spent Thursday morning in Yokohama shopping. Yesterday was informed that the Empress would visit our school on Saturday, great preparations were made. In the afternoon walked to Kaga Yashiki, rode back, met Miss Murray and Miss Day who 227 Empress and she gave them a prize, then attended by her maids of honor, the chamberlain of her household, her officers and the Mom Bu sho officers she went to her carriage. All the girls were outside to bid her farewell, and all the attendants were ranged opposite to them. Everything passed off beautifully. Two servants bearing a receptacle of gilded bronze, and two others bearing a large trunk containing the Imperial hot water, and extra dishes followed the train. Akai came home to dinner. Ma M'Cartee called, Dr Veeder and Mr. Scott. Friday Evening 
 Dec 5th 1875 On Sunday, it rained all day, Mail in the afternoon, no bad news from home. On Monday, went to Yokohama, bought a black silk, went up on the Bluff, dined at Mrs. Pruyn's, met Miss Gouldy a newly arrived missionary on her way to Osaka. On Tuesday she and Mrs. Benton came up and stayed with me until Thursday. Willie took them to Shiba, Asakusa, Ueno and other places. Today, Mr. and Mrs. Millers called, from Yokohama. Willie's future is 
 Decided and he expects to leave here as soon as this month is ended. He is the subject of a personal spite of the Director of the College and is treated most unkindly by these. 229 Day off, and Mrs. Murray called. Having a black sick maid. Thursday Afternoon 
 Dec 1st. On Sunday attended church, Miss Youngman has come to Yedo and with her is Miss Yamble. On Monday called on the Williams, to invite them here to a dinner. Called at Iskidyji on the new arrivals, all were out. On Tuesday went to Yoko hama, met Miss Baker and Miss Millir, and sever al other friends. Yesterday called at Mrs. Murray's, they were engaged on Saturday - invited Mr. and Mrs. Wilson to dine with us. We met Mr. Soogir and Jangimoto. Mrs. Wilson spent last evening. Received the mail on Sunday, all well at home. Monday Night 
 Dec 22nd. Mrs. Williams was too ill to come on Saturday, went down to church on Sunday, Mr. and Mrs. Wilson & Scott spent the evening. Today Mr. Tawakura and his two sisters, the Princess Riwa and the Princess Isune, dined with us. They stayed about three hours. They were dressed nearly the same as the day we were there, except that their robes were purple, heavily embroidered. We enjoyed the visit very much. Tomorrow we are invited to a reception at Mrs. Capron, given to Minister Bingham and family. On Wednesday we go to Yokohama to spend a week at Mrs. Baker's. Sent letter. 1874 231 Time as happy as possible for her family and friends. A magnificent tree, adorned with presents for all, stood in the middle of the parlor, the walls and pillars were decorated, and a handsome picture of evergreens and chrysanthemums formed a cross and crown on one side, a Merry Christmas to all on another, the gate, the halls were also decorated beautifully. We were invited to a Musicale at the Cargill's and went over at 2 o'clock. These are the wealthiest people in Yokohama, they live in a large mansion on the English Bluff. Here we met Sir Harry and Lady Parkes, the governor. He takes great interest in Willie on account of the articles in the Japan Mail, and asked for an introduction to me. I met all the elite of Yokohama, nearly all English, and heard some very fine music. On Christmas Day we all went to the English Church, heard the Te Deum sung remarkably well. Walked out with Blanche to the Public Gardens, came home dressed for dinner at 6 o'clock. A large dinner party assembled, two tables were set in the dining rooms, and about thirty-five sat down to an elaborate dinner. Afterwards, we went into the parlor, where the tree was lit and after the candles burned down, the presents 1870 233 Tuesday. I was quite sick all day. Mrs. Ballagh & Ms Benton made me calls also Minister Bing him. In the evening, by invitation, went to the Theatricals at the German Club. The audience was in full dress, the hall beautifully  decorated. The casting lovely, a supper was spread, a large tree, every lady had a gift. I was so sick that I was obliged to leave before it closed. Wednesday. Was a little better, letters from home, all well. Presents of gloves, collars & cuffs. Mrs. Baker was not well. I rode down to the Settlement, called on the Dutch ladies who are spending their holidays in Yokohama. Wrote invitations for a large party at Mrs. Baker's next Monday night. Ms Dr Hepburn & Mrs. Sam Hepburn called on me. As I retired that night I could only raise up a song of thanks to God for the blessings of the past year which to us all had been one of prosperity, my only regret being my sins minimal commission. How much better than last year! Another trust will see no home. Mrs. Baker leaves on the 23rd and although she will be missed more than any other lady in Yokohama, none will miss her more than I. (below in still under date 7th Jan 1874) New Year's Day 1874 was a hard cold one with a grey sky, all gloom, but bright fires made home a warm place. We had. Thursday 
 Jan 8. 1878 235 On Monday, we returned to Yokohama to attend the Musical at Mrs. Baker's, and it was a very brilliant affair. The dress was elegant and the music perfect, quite an array of talent was to be seen and duets and solos followed each other without flagging. Mr. Marsh had his harp and played a duet with Mrs. Baker, Mr. Rowell his violin, and a cornet player from the Saco also favored us. Ms. Day gave us some Italian songs with her magnificent voice, the finest I ever heard in a parlour, and Mrs. Anderson, an English lady, sung remarkably well. Some German and French songs were very pleasant and well received. I never attended a more successful and brilliant entertainment. Sir Barry and Lady Parkes were present, they invited me to tiffin the next day, but I was not well. As F returned the next morning & Willie dined with them. Johnine & Willie returned with me and stayed until this morning. We all went to the Japanese theatre on Wednesday. In the afternoon, I invited all the children in the Compound to tea and the boys showed them a Magic lantern. Received several calls for New Year's as the 1st was inclement weather. Prof. Lummers yesterday. 237 girls came to see me and I entertained them for an hour, then Willie and went to the River, met many foreigners, Days. Williams S'Episien 80, many distinguished Japanese personal friends. The Daimio of Yet Chizen Ooki and others. After tiffin we went out to make some calls, on Prince Etchizei, on Mrs. Capt. Bachelor, then to Shiba, then to Gempfre Kuji to call on Mrs. Rice, this took all the afternoon. Our new cook seems very good, he gives us elaborate meals, all well-cooked. Limera dined with us. Friday 
 Jan 30th On Sunday, attended church, in the afternoon walked up to see the Murrays, remained for tea. All this week there have been horse-races, wrestling, etc. on the Heudan, near the Shokousha. These ceremonies are in honor of the soldiers who were killed in the late war. On Tuesday, we gave a dinner to the Daimio of Etehizen and family. Jug retainers accompanied the Daimio, his wife, and the young prince who is eight years old. Riemera was interpreter. On Thursday, Prof. & Mrs. Murray, Dr. and Mrs. Mr. Oavtee dined with us. Today I went to Tokohama, went to the dentists, then up on the Bluff, dined with Mrs. Prusyn. Mrs. Crosby brought me down in the trap. Mr. Thomas dined Mr. Ewakura has nearly recovered. Willie probably put to the attempted assassination from 6 months ago. Monday Night, 9 1874 239 Rev Mr. Cochrane and family spent Sunday in Yedo, a part of the time here. Little Rine and Son Nakamuio came to church yesterday and dined with me, also Mre Aoki, a Jap. lady who came from Fupiic. Mr. Syle took tea and spent the evening, Mur Scolt ditto. 3o day walked up to castle gates, wet Mr. Eturse Sawy the marniage of Capt. Coy t Mris Ellen Eyre, daughter of Manuel Eyre of Phila - DrSyle married them at Mr. Mr. Dougals' house. We intend calling. They hare gone to Shanghai for three weeks. Sunday Night Feb 18th. On Wednesday went to Yokohama, went to the dentists shopped, Willie and I returned in five o'clock train. Did not go to the wedding, everybody else did and On Wednesday night the Wilsons and others were over and I had a full account. It was only a preparatory entertainment, according to Dutch custom, the wedding took place yesterday in Yokohama, in the presence of the Dutch minister by Dr Veeder. Mr. & Mrs. Pfoundesand Mrs. Mr. Don Old madew long call on Friday. Yesterday Dr Brown came ap, preached for us today & will go back tomorrow. Just now the political horizon is very stormy and we are feeling quite uneasy. The men of Yizen, Ake andothe southern provinces are in rebellion, demanding a war with Corea, Okubo has gone down with a battalion of marines, the Stonewall and some soldiers, now is the time for the government to show its power, but we fear evil. Thursday night. 3rd 1876 Willie read a paper before the Asiatic Society last night on the Games and Sports of Japanese children. He stayed in Yokohama until this morning. On Monday and Tuesday, rain. This afternoon spent with Yone at the silk store. This evening read Herbert Spencer's Moral Philosophy. No callers. Thursday Evening, 26th. Quiet week. We had a week of rain and did not get out on Sunday. On Tuesday, called to see Mrs. Murray, met Mrs. Yanaka and Mr. House. Yesterday, spent the evening at Dr. McCartie's. Today, called on several friends at Iskidyji. Dr. and Mrs. M. Iwao, the missionaries from Canada, are going down to Thizuoka to live. Mr. Nakama was calling with us. The Williams have friends stopping with them, Mr. and Mrs. Clapp. Willie called yesterday. My friend and assistant pupil, Lonedkai, is to be married next week to a Mr. Joshiwarra, an officer in the Okurasho. The saw him but once, and all the necessary arrangements have been made by a go-between, an uncle of Yone's. She is now getting her house and made and will not see the gentleman until she is taken to his house by her father. Another pupil, Doyeda, will be married quite soon. Sent letters home today &draft.’ 245 Yashiki to lffin, met Mrs. Janaka there. We returned about four o'clock, and Mis Pruyn went down to Tskiji, where she will remain until to-morrow and return to Yokohama. Willie has gone on a little journey to visit some historical places, we expect him back to-morrow. To-day has been a holiday, the anniversary of Gin-mu-ten-no, the first ruler of Japan. Wednesday April 8th 1874 Willie returned on Saturday night, on Sunday attended church. Mu and Cochrane and his little daughter Susie spent from Sat. until Monday after noon here. Several of my pupils stayed to dinner. Mrs. Murray and Miss Janaka paid us a visit on Saturday. Last evening a most brilliant affair at Mrs. Day's, about sixty were present, military and naval officers, French, English, Dutch and American. Several were from Yokohama. Captain & Mrs. Mc Dougall and family are staying with the Binghams. We left at 10, just at suppertime. Mrs. Day sang four songs, music from Mr. House, Count Des Charmes, and several others. Gone Aka was married on Sunday evening. To-day, a lovely one. Mr. House called. I did not take a walk. Miss Ballagh and children left in the steamer yesterday for home. Monday was the anniversary of our blessed mother's birth. Have been reading Swords' Travels around the World. 7 247 Our Secretary of Legation called on Monday. Several ap. friends yesterday and today Tegima's uncle. The blossoms are lovely everywhere, the pride of the lopa. The sakura is exquisitely beautiful, and my house is adorned with them. The soponicas are growing in profusion over the mountains, in the yards, and along the roads. ", " Saturday Evening, April 18, 4 1874. Yesterday, I spent the afternoon with Yone. She lives opposite the Suimasho, a house with a parlor furnished in a foreign style, and then a Japanese parlor. In the Tokonoma was a wooden stand on which was a pine tree, the plum tree in blossom, and some other kind of tree. On each side were two tsuzumi or storks, which birds are supposed to live a thousand years. At the foot of the tree were two large and two small tortoises with fringed tails, also long-lived. In the branches of the tree was a nest of silk cotton containing the storks' young. On each side of the tree stood a couple, a very old man with a rake over his shoulder and a white-haired old woman with a broom. Then some which is very hard to break, represent the nature of the marriage tree, which must not be broken. Some dried fish and sake were on a small table at the side. When the bride arrived at her were "18 249 six of my pupils called, also Dr Williams. This morning Mr. Cochrane took tea. Willie and Clarkir both have classes of students every Sunday morning and evening. I have been writing letters home. Monday evening April 20 th To-day received invitations to the first wedding annversary of Sen. and Mrs. Williams and we hear that it is to be a very large and gorgeous affair. Rode around the Castle this afternoon, very windy and dusty. Spent last evening at Mrs. Wilson's. To-night Mr. Chipman called. Tuesday Night 21th Today was spent in Yokohama, first at the dentist's then at the dressmakers, then shopping, took dinner at Mrs. Pruyn's, met there Dr. Treat, Ms. Wolcomb, Miss Andrews and Miss Blodgett. The latter a girl of sixteen going home from China, where her father is a missionary, to college. The others are all missionaries. Friday Evening 24th. Two rainy days, Drs. Treat and Williamson called yesterday. Mr. Flatakeyama has returned from Satsuma. Today Ms. C. Cartie called, she is going to Kaga Yashiki to live next month. Wednesday April 23th Went to church on Sunday, in the evening there was a severe storm of thunder and lightning. We had some of the boys here and spent the evening singing. Mr. Cochrane also here. Elon Monday went to Dr. Hoffman's, spent the evening at Dr. Mc Caitee's, Mrs. Ir. Axtoun called. 
