Typed 18 June 1965. This is a manuscript in the hand of William Elliot Griffis wrapped in brown paper on which was written by him: "Sera tch NiSS M. S. G. May 31, 1924." Some pages were in groups, some were numbered consecutively, some not at all, and some seem to fit other places than the numbers indicate, and a great deal is either missing or was never written. Almost every page has corrections on it, some so jumbled they are almost impossible to decipher. Sometimes he will leave in something he marked out but will indicate that he did so. Any notation I may add will be put in parentheses and initialed. 

Dedicated in gratitude to God and in grateful memory of my three sisters: Mary - sweetheart, Martha - provider, Margaret - scholar and inspirer, by their brother, the author. Margaret Clark Griffis, a woman of high ideals, was not afraid to put her ideals to the test. From girlhood, her conscience bade her to venture her faith and trials of conviction. Her ear was ever open to the Master's words, "Freely ye have received, freely give." Even as a stranger in a strange land, or in countries afar, she had the same spirit which actuated the apostle of international mind - "I am debtor both to the Greek and to the barbarians." Hence also the usual reply to the calls of duty, "So as much as in me is, I am ready." She ever admired the motto of England's princes - "I serve." As a teacher, her inspiring model was Dr. Arnold of Rugby. Margaret Quandril Mark Griffis was born June 13, 1838, in Philadelphia and died at her brother's home in Ithaca, NY, December 9, 1913. She started out in her life career with the ideal and determination to be an educator of girls. In this chosen work from 1853 to 1898, she gave the best of her powers of her life, and to this end, she spared nothing for self-culture. What were her inheritances? What were her endowments by nature? What was her character? Her environment? What were the visible results? Her life seen in perspective, as a whole, what? This book attempts to answer these questions. First-born child of her parents, she was named after her father's sister. Save space, I shall, of course, use the pet name "Quandril," as that of a beloved comrade, fellow-worker, travel companion, soul-mate inspirer to noble purposes, lover of Japan, and woman in whom race-prejudice was slight and the international mind developed. In the field of biography for the educational conquest of Asia, we have scores of biographies of men, of the life stories of the women we have few. That this sketch of an unselfish life may help even a little other girls and women on the eternal pilgrimages of the race, is the hope of the biographer, perhaps I should say psychographer. 
Introduction: When on the same day - the 19th of February 1212 - the two missionary ships, Caravan, in Salem harbor, and the Harmony, in the Delaware River, lifted anchor and sailed to the conquest of Asia by love and help, instead of by loot and war, it was an event equal in moral significance to the Netherlands, for the settling of the Middle States of America. It meant not only the winning of men to a knowledge of God, the uplift of humanity by reason and sympathy, instead of by conquest and coercion, by brute force of men alone, but it marked a new era – the cooperation and helpfulness of women also proved that in the work of civilization and Christianity, the other half of humanity was to have a share. It showed that courage was not a masculine trait only. It revealed a finer strength and valor. Caravans throughout the ages, so noble in Persia, for example, or from the Midianites whom Joseph's brethren saw, moved westward, even this one with the waters faced the East, to bring freedom and truth, with the only harmony among nations - that of Jesus of the international mind. Without intention, also, but when viewed in the perspective of over a century, the sailing of these trading ships rang the death knell of the old political dogma that the stability and progress of nations depended wholly on sword and cannon. The reign of tusk, claw, and fang borrowed from the beasts of the jungle, which even some residents of the United States have been too readily to uphold, was to end. 
Long before even their own government could discern the fact, a few American people had decided the future policy of the nation which was this: that, concerning Asia, Africa, and the islands of the sea, the concern was to be predominantly that regarding humanity and not land, raw material, or wealth to be seized or bartered. For it had been for centuries the fixed policy of European governments - a doctrine shaped when church and state were one and a ruler in Italy was the head of all - that the lands and continents outside of Christendom existed to be conquered. "Compel them to come in", the motto borrowed from the Master's parable, but given a sinister interpretation, was expounded by the decrees of rulers in arms and war. The dogma had been fixed and made orthodoxy when on Christmas Day A.D.800, the pope placed the crown of dominion on the head of Charlemagne, and the Kingdom of the church took the place of the Kingdom not of this world. For over a thousand years, this heinous and immoral doctrine was promulgated and enforced by armies and navies in conquest and war. Yet in America, it was not the rulers, but the people of the United States who wrought into existence our constitution and government. In time, the same public opinion, led by a few Christians and missionaries, revolutionized the European doctrine and policy that Asiatic and African peoples existed to be conquered and pay debts. The American teaching by example was that these people exist to be healed, helped, uplifted, yes, and loved. 
Despite every ridicule and the hooting of the worldly wise, the double work of converting public opinion at home and enlightening the lands afar went on, even to the third and fourth generation, went on, for it is written of the Servant of God, that "he shall not fail nor be discouraged till he hath set judgment in the whole earth". Now, a great army of our noblest young men and women, our college graduates, our physicians, surgeons, technicians, have marched east, with schools, colleges, hospitals, and edifices for Christian Associations. Besides the arts and sciences, the games and sports, the athletic trainings to build up the bodies of both of our fellow mortals of both sexes, the universities for women now reach in number nearly a score. One of the very first and best results is the stimulus given and the improvement made in the native religions and the procedure of governments. Lagging far behind Christian enterprise has been the commendable action of the United States government in virtually giving notice to Europe that conquest must cease, and justice, humanity, and altruism should begin. This was shown in the fact is that while taking positive measures toward enlightenment and peace, we never - except as mentioned below - made aggressive war on China, Korea, or Japan. In sending a peaceful treaty expedition to Japan, the orders of President Fillmore to Commodore Perry were peremptory not to provoke or begin hostilities. 
The sneer formerly much heard on the soil, that Townsend Harris had "opened Japan to British merchants and American missionaries" contained unintentionally a noble tribute to a diplomatist who, even more than 
holding faith in Christianity, believed in practicing the religion of Jesus. Bravest among the brave, Townsend Harris, though without ship or soldier, kept his country's flag flying in the city of Edo when all other foreign legations had fled to Yokohama to be under the guns of their men-of-war. Harris could even turn his cheek to be smitten to show a man what a fool he had made of himself. Yet, in regard to China and Korea, the diplomatic and war record of the United States is a blotted one. We sought Chinese trade and labor first, not the other way around. Then we compelled changes in the treaties. When the Boxer riots broke out, our Admiral Kempff, having no word from Washington and knowing that we were not at war with China, refused to join with the allies in a needless war on China, the useless killing of six hundred Chinese in the destruction of the Pei-ho forts. Was he hurrahed about, glorified in the newspapers, honored by the Senate, or rewarded by the chief executive? Not at all. He was ignored and sent on routine duty to the Philippines. On the strength of a lie told to the State Department, we sent out a squadron in 1871 that killed six hundred Koreans.
 Then, making total failure in the diplomatic mission, our men of war sailed away, leaving behind the impression with the ignorant populace all through the Far East that a handful of "our boys" - the tiger-hunters - drove away the Americans who had first come as grave robbers. This lie, believed and acted upon by the United States government and afterward exposed and printed, may be read in the reports issued by the Department of State.
Then again we besought the Koreans to make a treaty that we might share their trade. They would not see us; we sought them. We promised to aid them when they should get into trouble with a third party. What happened? When one out of the forty-eight states of the Union troubled the Executive at Washington, he ordered the stars and stripes hauled down, and our legation called home - at a time when most of the foreign residents, material improvements made, and capital invested was American. At least one man believes that the keeping of our national word given in solemn treaty, and a strong protest from Washington would have saved the civilization of a country acknowledged by Japan and America to be a sovereign state. Happily, the altruistic work of Americans in Korea has, in a measure, atoned for the invasion, slaughter, and treaty making. Into this great work of the warless invasion of Asia, the woman whose life is outlined in this volume had a modest part, as well as her kinsmen and ancestors. Because she and her biographer believed in the religion of Jesus which outlaws war, though Christianity does not, are they to be called "pacifists" in any offensive sense, or their "Americanism" to be doubted, or the redness of their blood questioned? Then let us look at the record of history. Three of her paternal ancestors - two great granduncles and one great grandfather in active service of their country, held the rank of Colonel in the Continental army. Another great grandfather, on the maternal side, was in the Pennsylvania militia and suffered spoliation from Hessians and British. Her grandfather was among the first before 1800 to carry the American flag around the world, her father following. Of two of her brothers in the civil war, one served in the army, one in the navy and a third in trying to enlist was rejected on account of his youth, while at least ten of her near kinsmen several served during the entire war in the Union army, three being in Confederate prisons - a record not wholly unbroken in the minor wars and the most disappointing one of all - in 1916-1912. Let the religion of Jesus supplant traditional Christianity that upholds, justifies, and nourishes war. 
As in the work of the "Justiciar of Peace," in peace, in mitigation of the horrors of war, in the renaissance of Asia and the Coming of the Kingdom, women have borne so noble and efficient a part, it may be well to have more of their life stories told. Possibly because the author has written no fewer than seven biographies - several of them at his own cost - he may be pardoned for adding one biography of a woman, even though it were his own sister, when repeated requests from China, Korea, and Japan have come to him to do so. His book may also serve as a report to all who contribute toward the memorial libraries (chiefly of the Everyman's) sent out to these countries in her name. Heartfelt thanks to all her former pupils in Japan and America, and her few loving friends who have assisted me with reminiscences. Nor would I forget the Infinite Friend who gave such an inspirer and helper. My best hope of doing some good in writing this sketch is that thousands who read it will feel a warmth in their hearts - "I had a sister just as good." W.E.G. The earliest remembrances of my sister - the first of three daughters of one mother - go back to 1847, over a cradle occupied by a new-comer - a baby boy, one of four brothers, of whom three had already arrived - a little girl, the youngest of three sisters, and myself. The wonder to us was whence had come the tiny stranger. We both resolved to ask our oldest sister Margaret, for the idea in our infantile minds was that she knew everything, and from her must come the last word. She was with us oftenest in the nursery and her love for us seemed boundless. It is true that our mother told us that the new baby had come down from Heaven, and that God had sent it. We did not know enough to doubt or deny, but our belief was hazy, for as I distinctly recall, the idea I had of Heaven was of a great place with a blue floor which they called the sky. When it rained, I supposed the floor was full of little gimlet holes through which the drops fell down to the earth. I thought the baby must have had a net time up there; yet, too, I saw my mother souse in the tub the little fellow that she said was my brother. 
That, too, was a puzzlement, for the brother I already had was a big fellow already eight years old, while I was going on to four only. My little sister, being like myself puzzled to account for the baby she saw in his bath every morning, hied to our big sister, Margaret, to ask how such a wee bit of a thing that could not walk, had no hair or teeth, could not hold a spoon to eat with, and was unable to say even one word, got into our house. Who brought him? What was he good for? Margaret - we called her "Sister Maggie" - was willing. According to the approved nursery legend and orthodox of that (early) historian era - at which the modern wise ones, flappers and all, laugh - just as people at the end of our twentieth century will sneer and pity us - the diagnosis of the case, given out of the profound wisdom of nine years, was this: "Mother, God is going to give mother a baby, he tells the doctor to go into the woods to a certain tree. There he finds one and brings it to us, just as Doctor McLean did last week when Johnnie came." All this was within doors in the confidences of the nursery, but my first clear memory-picture of her outdoors is of a young girl with her lap full of daisies, buttercups, and dandelions. She was coming out of the cemetery-garden of the Old Swedes' Church at Wicaco, as the Indians named the neighborhood, and as Longfellow loved to tell in his "Evangeline." The Swede Swanson was the first owner of the land which William Penn later purchased when he laid out the city of Brotherly Love, naming the district Southwark after the original in London. Longfellow, much of whose poetry Margaret soon learned by heart, tells us in his poem, the form of which was new in America, how the city planned and named the streets after the forest trees, "as if to appease the dryads whose haunts had been invaded." I believe Rittenhouse Square was named after the sweet bird songs heard among the trees. It is certain that we children loved to see the robins return in the springtime to their old haunt, while taught by our elders we learned to look for the wild geese, the Pilgrims of the sky. Indeed, all our lives beginning here, we delighted to listen to the birds making love and building their nests in May and June. For us, it was fun to peep in at the birdlings even though the feathered mothers and fathers seemed threatened with nervous prostration at our undesired interest in their offspring. Indeed, memories seem even now to be in harmony, as of vine and trellis, with the love we daily saw of our own parents. This idea of mother love and the nestlings was so deeply, because so unconsciously, photographed on my memory that thirty years afterwards, when I began my ministry in Schenectady, I reveled in the artistic series of twelve wood carvings on the Eancker Memorial Screen. The cycle of the year was shown in the months, and the life of the birds from January to December.
The part of Wecaco seemed like a dream come true, though at first, I could not recall where I had dreamed it. Designed by Edward Tuckerman Potter, son of the bishop Alonzo and brother of the same, in a relate who sleeps in marble at St. John's Cathedral on Morning side Heights on Manhattan, one reads a poem in twelve cantos. January shows icicles hanging on the pine boughs; February a thaw with branches bare; March (see (took over; the first bird back from the south; April the matins; May the nest building; June the mother's hopes and care and the father bringing provision; July the fledglings trying their wings; August the young birds feeling themselves; September fullness of life amid the ripe fruit; October the first flight southward; November bare of life and then the frost that has touched again the pine cones. The story for the year is told. Very appropriately in the Swedes' Church burying ground is the grave and memorial stone of Wilson the ornithologist. From the first, Margaret was sensitive to the sounds of nature, "the splendor of the grass and the glory of the flower." In later life, more the trees and over the room in which she fell asleep was an arbor vitae, both a symbol as well as the name of the Tree of Life. The descriptions of sunsets, each one of gorgeous magnificence, are very numerous in her diary. Settled by the Swedes in (...), there was first Wecaco eloping down to the Delaware river, a blockhouse for defense and worship, but in time there rose the quaint octagon church built of glazed brick brought from the homeland. Our father often took us on Sunday afternoons to worship within its walls. 
Around its hallowed precincts was God's Acre where slept the forefathers and where often little Maggie went to pluck flowers. Here Longfellow brings the French-Canadian exile, Evangeline, and here in the flowery spaces, little Margaret found her first joys amid nature's beauty, while sensitive also to all the romance, history, and poetic associations associated with the Delaware river, which flowed but a few rods away from our home. This lordly stream was ever animate with white sails and moving ships. Some under full sail were gliding down the bay and out to the ocean, destined for lands afar. Others homeward-bound were entering, but in every case, the ship seemed a symbol of venture and even of hope and faith, a lure to greater things and potent to touch the imagination. Anchored lone in the river was the stately frigate Constitution of imperishable renown, "Old Ironsides," that had sailed in many seas and whose thunders had helped in our second war for independence. At the United States Navy Yard near by, where ships were built, launched, and equipped and in which, besides many men of national renown came, we often saw the iron-hearted commander, Commodore Stewart. The names of the Guerriere and Java, of the Cyane and Levant, were to us as household words. But the event of events - as now seen in the perspective of half a century, and as unconsciously influencing our life-careers - was the launching in the morning of April - 1850 of the man-of-war, destined to be three years later Commodore Perry's flagship in the waters of Japan. Our father, an ex-sea-captain, but then a coal merchant, having watched from the laying of the keel, the progress of the gallant ship, made preparations when the bulwarks and decks were completed, to give his friends a sight of the launch. Himself a lover of the sea and a lover on it from his youth up, until he trod his own quarter deck, he loved above all lovely shapes, beautiful ships, and such the Susquehanna truly was. Over the piles of coal that looked to us children like black mountains, he had a platform built. It would accommodate, I think, about two hundred persons. At the critical moment, the ropes were cut away and almost it seemed as if transformed into a human being with will and motion, she felt the thrill of life alone; her keel. At the first sight of movement, our father, slipping me rather hastily from his lap to the plank floor, jumped up and waving his hat called for "three cheers for the Susquehanna!" All the males at least responded lustily with their voices, while the ladies waved their handkerchiefs. The girls, including the future pioneer Lady teacher in Japan, clapped their hands in glee. We knew not then the honors that awaited the Susquehanna. The pretty frigate was named after the noble river that flowed out from 'NEG HSSS ?Y:'G.
 Its name being closely allied in sound with Suzu-ki Hana or bamboo blossom, on its first arrival in view of Fuji Yama, caught the fancy of the Mikado's subjects, and was often on their lips.
Twenty years later, the launching of a ship, as witnessed by us in Japan, compelled comparison with the ceremonial used in the different countries, and we are bound to say to the advantage of the more aesthetic Japanese. In the Occident that inherits the mythology of Greece, a bottle of wine is broken over the bow by a lady. In old times, the rule was rigorous that she must be a virgin. Its significance lay in the fact that it was originally the payment of tribute to Neptune, god of the deep sea and the realm of waters. In Japanese mythology, there is a custom of releasing a cage of live birds as the prow touches the water, derived from Chinese tradition, but in this is a double symbolism. Both the ship and the imprisoned birds gain their freedom and begin to live their true lives. In the case of the Susquehanna, a bottle of Spring water was broken over her bow by fair hands, and there most gracefully she slid down the ways to be henceforth the bride of the sea. (History later - see) Her guns were never used but for peaceful salutes, except in the Brothers' War of 1861-65. Years afterward in Japan, I thought the ceremony of releasing a cage full of live birds to free! A larger life was a better symbol and richer in one of those shootings. Sarah is the heaven of memory for whose preservation in the archives of remembrance, we cannot always account, is of Jr. - Wells Williams, whom I later knew well. This distinguished scholar of China, diplomatist, and lexicographer having learned Japanese from some shipwrecked sailors served as an interpreter to Commodore Perry. 
Of course, in those early days - before the American missionary Dr. J.C. Hepburn had made himself the pontifex maximus, that is the Chief bridge builder, spanning the Linguistic Gulf by his great dictionary - every other by any sum, though being, as a rule, a Japanese scholar once told me, was but a second edition of Hepburn's, and there was much circumlocution. All negotiations had to filter slowly down through three languages - Japanese, Dutch, and English, and three forms of script, Chinese, Japanese and the Roman character, before the precipitate of comprehension was safely obtained. Hence also and necessarily the overworking of certain useful parts of speech. When in Japan, I found some old natives who remembered Dr. Williams as "Keredomo San" (Mr. But, or Sir although, or Doctor nevertheless). None were more vigilant than Williams in guarding the American side of treaty rights and privileges. In fact, Perry encountered a string of "buts", from the time of anchor-casting until the paddle wheels moved his ships homeward, for the Japanese had their rights, and also their well-grounded suspicions of "Christian" diplomacy as represented by the Occident. It was two elderly women at New Brunswick, N.J. that in 1866 took the two Japanese lads into their homes, who did more to break down the walls of prejudice and suspicion than all the navies and diplomacy of foreign nations. So the Imperial envoys of 1874 declared in an autograph letter. Thus, from the first, though all unconsciously, the life of young Margaret was linked with an international event and especially with Japan. One who knows his old Philadelphia well may easily gather that the home of Quandril was of the typical and average sort. He did not yet live between the rhymed "Chestnut, Walnut, Spruce, and Pine. Market, Arch, Race, and Vine." region, but that home fulfilled the Proverbists' prayer, "give me neither poverty nor riches." Indeed we children knew not what either was.
 Memory holds other pictures of home life in Quandril's girlhood - of family worship was a daily habit, the father's head reverently bowed asking grace at meals; while I recall that the final sound in my ears was "long a", rather than the usual form, "amen", yet not from paternal haste, but possibly for more reverence. What in our home was routine I remember also in that of several of our WEG; HCG 13. relatives - that is, a blessing asked upon the food, and family worship, and in later years at least, on Sunday mornings. As the children grew up and the cares of livelihood and the interests of business ambition, duties, and pleasures multiplied to complexity, the ancient Christian and apostolic reference to "the church that is in your house." had more of a traditional meaning than a contemporary fact. One other notable sight associated with the Delaware River - before we moved from this southern (to the northern part of Philadelphia; first to Poplar street near Newmarket - and then to Girard Avenue) was the unloading of living freight from the immigrant ships from Ireland, at the Queen Street Wharf near by. At times, in one day, as many as seven
large sailing vessels landed their human cargoes until the Quaker City was threatened with an influx of the Irish fresh from the bogs. Such an invasion scared many of the natives and stirred the politicians to get up the Know Nothing Party with their riotous proceedings. The Irish of 1848 and following years were fleeing from famine and dearth of potatoes, yet what was one man's meat was not another's nourishment. Not knowing what Indian corn or cornmeal was (though known as "Oswego flour" in England), and since "concerning tastes there must be no dispute," a cargo of this form of sustenance quickly dispatched to Erin was sent back to America because the Irish on "the Pope's Green Isle" would not eat it. Later, however, we noticed that in our house, the servants, cook, and maid enjoyed corn on the cob, and even heard of one son of Erin in a restaurant, after enjoyment that left the spike bare, asking the waiter to "please put some more beans on that stick." Yet, as an English historical scholar in Ithaca, I heard a story, in the same strain, following his ignorance of America's staple. The members of our household, young and old, came in touch with the Irish on every side. 
Our father, needing many men and much material in muscle for the cheap rough work of unloading canal boats and for shoveling, piling, hauling, winching, and delivering the black diamonds of Pennsylvania, became one of the first employers on a fairly large scale of Irish labor. Having been long used to handling men on his ships and finding each one's best side, he and the Sons of Erin got along well together, while also he recommended them to other employers, which included an uncle in the same business. These were the days before gasoline motor trucks, hence stables, horses, carts, and carters to look after. harness and feeding, Heeded, Happy are the writer's memories of these Irish helper-friends, and their love of him, in the office, rear room and yard, and on the boats and canals. On rainy days, their stories of Irish lore were his delight. As for Sister Maggie, when she came to the yard or office, the men treated her as if she were a princess. Her name charmed them, for those with good voices often sang the Irish songs, "Maggie is by my side" and "As she sat in the low-backed car." In the home, Irish servant girls were employed from the time I can first remember. One maid was so directly from a one-storied hut and earthen floor that she at first came down the stairs backward. Very vivid are the pictures of evenings when father and mother were out at some company, and our Irish nurses or the housemaids would gather us around her to tell the fairy tales of Erin. At such a time, you may be sure, our ears not being large enough to contain all the wonders we heard, our open mouths became organs of audition. I suppose some of these tales were as old as the Celtic race. On the whole, we learned to love the Irish, as those who know how to get at and develop their nobler side and better qualities of the Celts are pretty sure also to do.
The coming into our homes of the merry Irish, unsophisticated as they were, gave us not only amusement at the time as we heard their quaint idioms and odd wit. It did more - in helping us to appreciate our debt when we studied and taught English literature, for we had before us our contemporary ancestors - in phonetics and speech at least - for Irish-English as spoken in nothing more than that of the Elizabethan era, as anyone can prove by reading critically and often Bradford's "History of Plymouth Plantation," or of the Pilgrim Fathers. Before we moved into those parts of the city where the Delaware was out of sight, or the Schuylkill was in view, we may note that this water vicinity influenced Isabel's imagination during her whole life. She lived later, in succession, beside the Mississippi, the York, the Potomac and the Sumida. In fact, when during her several trips through Europe, she was always fascinated with the rivers and the riparian scenery. Especially did the Seine and Thames, the Rhine and the Danube, feed her soul, for few women sought more diligently to learn and enjoy the historical, literary and artistic associations of each, as both her journals and her companions in travel could tell. The moving life on the water charmed her. Yet the Delaware was not the first river she ever saw or about which she was old enough to ask questions. This was the Raritan, and the theme takes us back to the story of her birth and babyhood. In the latest years of her life she became intensely interested in the study of her genealogy. In other words, she sought to fulfill the Greek idea of a complete education – "Know thyself." This river and valley of her initial sight and interest, the Haritan at New Brunswick, New Jersey, has been finely described in the monograph of Dr. John Van Dyke, who besides telling much truth about enduring beauty, majestic features of nature. Among the first walks taken with nurse or mother were those over the hills which in after years the first Japanese students were to frequent. Green grass and among the buttercups on Rutgers College Hill. To be realistically accurate and to touch Revolutionary history, the shoes of little Margaret were probably redolent also of the garlic left by the Hessians of 1778. - Arlington: for generations, eaters of the local grass or spring buttercup, discerned the odor and to their disgust tasted the undesirable. Her mother, when a bride and later often attended the commencements of Rutgers College, and in this city her first son, Montgomery, was born. Let us here draw a lesson from the criticisms - especially those hostile or sectarian sorts, in which rough things were said about the Huguenot-Walloon memorial coin of 1924. 

It is charged that Admiral de Voligny and William the Silent - both characters being much admired by Commander-in-chief - had nothing to do with the settlement of New Netherland being a long-dead, long-dealt, land before 1624, etc. etc. This would be true if these Christian Gentlemen had been celibates, instead of husbands and fathers. In fact, however, they were both politically, religiously, and effectively the ancestors of the enterprise of colonization of America by men and women who were leaving despotism in church and state to seek liberty of conscience. In both a metallic and a literary sense, as well as in the family life, the illustration is appropriate. Both were ancestors of Queen Wilhelmina. Both set in motion also the forces that under the Dutch West India Company colonized with Huguenots and Walloons, the home makers of the New Netherland of 1624.
In fact, it is a universal law of nature and Providence that our ancestors had something to do with our coming into the world. Chapter II A Radiant Childhood. To account for Quandril, the brief story is this: a certain young man of Welsh extraction and name, from Devonshire, England, was in the mercantile marine service of Manuel Eyre, a merchant in the China trade and later on the Board of War holding the rank of colonel under the Continental Congress. The three Eyre brothers, Manuel, Jehu, and Benjamin, became free or Hickory Quakers, putting on the Continental uniform and drawing sword for the Colonies. Each one held the rank of Colonel. Not approving of the wretched policy of King George III and his advisors, backed by shopkeepers and captains of industry, in what Macaulay Trevelyn (Macaulay and Trevelyan? George Otto, or George Macaulay Trevelyan?) called in England "the Scotch War" and on this side "the War for Independence," John Griffis, supercargo on the vessels to China, made his home in an American citizen. The certificate of Quandril's grandfather issued by the Master Mariners' Society, which sat in Carpenter's Hall, was signed by Secretary Thomas Paine, at a time when (Stephen) Girard - whose hostile attitude to sectarianism has been greatly misunderstood - was in the city. (I forgot to end the sentence.) At that date, Volney, then visiting Philadelphia, was a popular author. When captain and part-owner of his ship, now sailing to the West Indies, he suffered spoliation from French cruisers. How finely has Sudyard Kipling pictured politics in the national capital, Philadelphia, in his story of Brother Square-Toes - said reference being to the boot-tips which in the French Revolution and among the French sympathizers in America were tokens of one's personal politics assuredly crept into our lives as surely as were cockades of the red, white, and blue - that trio of colors which in the fifth century in Gaul was the token of revolution and uprising against the Romans. One of the vivid memories of my boyhood is of hundreds of square-toed boots - old stock, then out of fashion, hanging up near the ceiling and gathering the dust of neglect in a famous bootery and shoe shop on Second Street. This was when the elite or "quality" lived numerously in what is now downtown. Captain John fell in love with Hannah, daughter (niece) of Colonel Manuel Eyre, and married her. For this mating with "a mark of the world and a Presbyterian," she was "read out of meeting," so bigoted and small-minded were and are Liberals. Probably the real, or at least one compelling reason, was that her father and two uncles were "men of war," one serving in the Continental artillery and the other in the infantry. Among the pretty things with which the sailor-man's home was decorated to the delight of the bride were many Oriental curiosities brought by the Captain himself, chiefly from China, for he was one of the first navigators to carry the stars and stripes around the world. Even in my memory are some pieces of exquisite ceramic and textile wares bought in Canton in 1797. The city's flag was raised in 1777 by Major (Date? Name?) of the First Artillery, sent out by Washington. In her childhood, Quandril played with toys brought from the Philippines by her father, long before she was born, brought back from his voyages. The first baby born of this union of Eyre and Griffis was a son, John. According to a custom in the families of men who followed the sea, and a tradition going back to King Henry VII of Red Rose fame, he was named John. 
So also the first verses of scripture. I recall that the babies in our home were all taught to learn by heart the first six of the Gospel according to Saint John, which, besides its profound philosophy, tells us of a man of that name. The boy that was to father Quandril was duly christened out of one of the silver bowls which then formed a feature in the tea service in every well-to-do family. Said bowl has been cherished in the household, along with other choice pieces of the same, and used for christenings during several generations. One of these silver pieces, a tumbler, is a survivor of a dozen or so, each one duly inscribed with the initials of the recipient and was given to each child of the several families in the Eyre clan. This was on condition that they would not ask for sugar or candy during the War of 1812-1815. Of course, our school histories give us the impression that we 'licked the British' at every encounter on land and sea. The real fact is that, except for a few naval duels and much privateering, with two or three battles fought either by the regulars or won by the riflemen, the militia regiments invariably ran away. During this period, few luxuries could be imported because all our ports were blockaded by British men-of-war. Hence the silver tumblers. Hence also the truth suppressed in our Fourth of July schoolbooks and hence also the truth told in that book highly commended by all military experts - 'The Unpopular History of the United States'! Hence also the extreme difficulty not yet overcome at this writing in getting published a critical, that is a true history of the American flag. In fiction, our neighbor and friend, Mr. S. Weir Mitchell, has told the story of the Hickory Friends in his novel 'Hugh Wynne, Free Quaker.' Captain Griffis, skilled in seamanship and business, and rich in public spirit, died when his son was about twelve years old (d. 2 Apr 1847 when son was only 2½ years old). He was buried in Christ Church cemetery at Fifth and Arch Street, a few feet away from Benjamin Franklin, and among the men of national fame, of whom he had known in life in the then national capital. Captain John Griffis and his son after him often heeded the saying of Poor Richard as to the certainty of 'death and taxes'; but another maxim of the many-sided Franklin, somewhat modified and expanded by Quandril's father, and happily put into practice, was this: 'Empty your purse into your head'; then you will never lose your money.' He considered investments in good books John, the future father of Quandril, was born in Lynn, Massachusetts, in 1801, and so in 1836 was thirty-two years old. He made love in that year to Anna Maria Hess, daughter of William and Hannah Hess, at whose ancestors we shall now glance. (Anna Maria's mother was Margaretta (Harby) Hess.) Traditionally, these were German Swiss from Zurich and named Harby. 
While coming in the wake of William Penn, they took up land at Barren Hill near Valley Forge. Many were the stories told by our grandaunts and our grandmothers of their hard experiences with the foraging parties of Hessians and redcoats during the British occupation of Philadelphia in 1778 and of the battle at Barren Hill. Here Lafayette engaged in conflict and saved his first independent command of 2200 Continentals, with seven pieces of artillery. A pretty full account is given in Charlemagne Tower's life of Lafayette. One cannon dismounted by a British round shot was saved by Lafayette commandeering one of John Harby's wagons. Hitching up the horses and driving several miles over the stony ground, he saved the gun, which was for many years in front of the United States Naval Asylum on Gray's Ferry Road in Philadelphia. John Harby's farm, lying between the two camps, suffered often in livestock and provender. Between the two fires of affliction - the British ravages and Washington's compulsion to force the farmers to accept the nearly worthless Continental paper money - they were in straits. This paper formed a species of currency which the Loyalists delighted in counterfeiting. Many were the maledictions heard in our childhood. The bottom of the abyss of worthlessness was reached when this or that detested thing was 'not worth a Continental.' From her sixth birthday until she started for the South to Tennessee and the banks of the Mississippi River as a governess near Island No. 10, Quandril was busy in school education and, of equal importance, self-culture of body, mind, and spirit. For a decade of years, she was a pupil in the excellent public schools in the neighborhood in which we lived. Perhaps not less important were the summer vacations spent in the country in Delaware, New Jersey, or Pennsylvania, with one or two trips to Baltimore. 
The combined clans made up of the descendants in the third generation of the Eyres and the Harbys of the Valley Forge region and the City of Brotherly Love numbered four families on each side, and families not so small as in modern days when Americans let aliens affect the census more efficiently, so that we had cousins galore and uncles and aunts were numerous, while more remote relatives in Delaware and New Jersey were grouped in at least a dozen families, not a few of the latter being Friends or Quakers. For twenty years the pendulum of sociability and celebration with dinners, songs, dances, games, poems, and general hilarity swung for the children between the paternal and maternal progenitors, downtown and uptown. These family gatherings have left on the dial-plate of memory more than shadows, rather some wonderful records. Besides the permanence of the happy childhood which the average American lad of the last century enjoyed, there are the bright and crowded films of movement and variety. One incident of Quandril's girlhood furnished her for life with a keen sense of gratitude to the overruling Providence that enabled her to preserve good eyesight until the 'shadows of the soul' were closed in her last sleep. The incident was on this wise. Fond of feline pets, as most little folks are - girls perhaps even more than boys - Quandril, when about five years old, having made friends (as she supposed) with the family cat, attempted, even while the mother was furnishing sustenance to her offspring, to show to a girlfriend the two kittens she thought were the prettiest. Instantly, the infuriated creature - her maternal instincts being thus outraged - leaped upon little Quandril's head, landing among her curls. With teeth to bite and claws to scratch, the brute proceeded as far as was possible, apparently at least, to devour the little girl. She, screaming with pain and terror, did not think of dropping the kittens until a half minute had elapsed when the feline mother leaped down and with one kitten in her mouth sought shelter, returning quickly for the other, which she transported in like manner to cover, whence her glassy eyes glared defiance. I remember that as the story as I heard it later from a lady eyewitness, that another, a human mother upbraided a certain male of the human species for running at once for his revolver (of the old "pepper box" pattern) and firing at the infuriated beast while on the girl's head, that it scratch no more and thus make sure of the child's eyes. 
My later experience and observations of the results obtained by target companies using smoothbore muskets justified the pacifist in this instance. The fact that a certain artillery unit militia has some popular reputation in parades as a fine body when in resplendent uniforms seems a picnic to Atlantic City with plenty of ball cartridges; they fired all afternoon without once hitting the target! This made me lenient in my judgment of the non-use of the clumsy revolver by a non-expert, that might have done more damage to the girl than the cat. It is only fair to the beast to add that after the healing ministry of a few strips of sticking plaster and many kisses had done their work, Quandril's mother being the good Samaritan in the case, Mrs. Puss and Maggie became warm friends - the latter having gained an experience that served her in good stead all her life. By some psychological trick, in later years in England when Mr. Moon and Dear Alfred were discussing 'The Queen's English,' and Dickens was condemned for using the phrase 'our mutual friend,' one really at least wondered whether the cat and Quandril could with grammatical propriety thus speak of each other. There was sufficient variety in the other feline pets known to Quandril in later years. One of these, with a name without known linguistic derivation, was Umicalina, a august member of the household, sired at the reputed age of seventeen - but so far as to be hardly able to pull itself over the floor to its daily lactate refreshment. Another, a famous male, was Jonas - as if alone and superb. Born at Pulaski, NY, this cat - why are those of this gender named after Thomas - the doubter? Of course, in Japan, we shared whatever affection we were able from a sense of duty to cultivate for the bob-tailed variety here so numerous. These lazy animals, poor mousers, ancestors of the Manx variety, and when imported from Korea in medieval days were considered for centuries as wild animals, their status gradually softening down from semi-feral creatures to domestic pets.
The following belongs after 'Utica.' This is not an Egyptian name, nor with any relation to the Egyptian monarchy whose tomb was discovered and excavated in 1923, nor did the name foreshadow results in archaeology! This incident (cat scratching Maggie) possibly may have had something to do with her permanent interest in the sightless. I remember her taking me to two exhibitions of the Asylum for the Blind, when this institution was situated first in one and then in another part of the city. During one of these, at Broad and Spruce, we heard the windows rattle because of an explosion of one of the Dupont powder mills at Wilmington, Delaware, many miles distant. At New Brunswick, Quandril, aged two, had many lovers among the neighbors, the Bucklews, Pattersons, and good people in the Second Presbyterian Church which her parents attended. One of the prominent men, a hotel keeper, not far away, was Cornelius Vanderbilt of later financial and railway fame. The home in which Montgomery Patterson Griffis was born was but a few yards distant, on Schureman Street - named after New Brunswick's first schoolmaster. His family was allied to that of the famous Oriental scholar Marie Jan Schurman of Utrecht, and President J.G. Schurman of Cornell University, and U.S. Minister to China. Later in Philadelphia, when Mr. Ezekiel Patterson paid Quandril's father an annual visit, he always left a shining gold dollar in the open palm of each of the six children then extant. A generation afterward when a learned professor lectured at Cornell University on 'The Inherent Dishonesty of the Gold Dollar,' wonder and memory kept tally with politics and economics. It was through his connection with the coal business when with his steamer convoy he towed the boats from the Delaware and Raritan canal into the Hudson River for delivery further north, that Quandril's father saw his opportunity to fix his home in Philadelphia, where he and his children wrought out their careers. In brief, thereafter our childish associations with New Brunswick were of a romantic sort, that it was a glory by its being far. Moreover, because of so many graduates from College and Seminary finding their brides in New Brunswick and taking them thence to settle and make homes, to the last, mystical Hudson River region, this city on the Raritan seemed to us children to 'sentinel enchanted land.' 
About 1852, when the newspapers were full of President Fillmore's peaceful treaty expedition to Japan in charge of Commodore Perry, U.S.N., Quandril's father being deeply interested in one of those Land and Building companies which have made Philadelphia the city of Homes, helped to create the facile possibility of every industrious mechanic to own a house rich in the modern conveniences. Through such an economic policy, Philadelphia became a city of homes, more of house-owners than of tenants. Thus Quandril's father moved his family to the house on Girard Avenue, north side between Eleventh and Twelfth streets. At this date, 1852, one could stand at the corner of Broad Street and look northward and westward, discerning scarcely a house except on a farm. Vine Street, that traverses the entire length of the city from east to west, was then but recently cut through. Other future avenues were still under the grass awaiting resurrection through pick and spade. From other points of vantage, even eastward from Eighth and northward from the avenue, there were few homes to be seen, yet buildings were being rapidly multiplied. Here in Quandril's grandfather's house, Margaretta Harby Hess, who in childhood used to slip out of the Lutheran Church at Fourth and Sherry Streets, and over the green fields (now a closely built-up business section), hurry to Christ Church at Second and Market streets to see President George Washington playfully Washington in the carriage, witnessed a like transformation of fields, orchards, and vegetable gardens into real estate and home sites. Most of the time the children attended the Sunday School of the Green Hill Presbyterian Church, and for education, the public school at Eighth and Master, or on Eleventh Street. Not so far away to the west was the Great School for Orphans founded by Philadelphia's merchant prince of French ancestry, Stephen Girard. Of that personage, we used to hear many anecdotes coming down from those of our Philadelphia ancestors who had known well the man whose industry, benevolence, and humanity were all notable.
 It was during our stay in Girard Avenue home, 1850-53, that the Great Fire which desolated the city took place and that Kossuth, the champion of Hungarian freedom, visited our city. Most interesting to us children were the volunteer firemen's and the militia parades, with their mummers chiefly 'Indians' - so far as brick dust, grease, horsehair, and buckshirt could make them such - the great market days of the butchers' guilds when hundreds of stall keepers in the market structure with their long white shirts, black silk high hats with rosettes on their breasts, rode in gay procession and then with music, flags, ribbons, and decorations of flowers and greenery, sold their 'show beef,' thus keeping up the old English guild traditions. It is to be doubted whether any part of the United States was more English in its general appearance than north-central Philadelphia, there was our grandfather's house, where his guests were members of Congress and French refugees. It was in this house on Girard Avenue that our little brother (Johnnie) fell from a swing, his spine broken and curving inwards, made him an invalid in pain until May 7, 1856, when the Sunderer of Friendships brought him relief. No sister ever lavished more devoted love and care on a brother than did Quandril on the little cripple - pitiant bearer of prolonged sufferings. Quandril's intense love for her own was greater in time and even until 1872, for her mother, whether this parent was in the splendor of her majestic womanhood or on the couch of helplessness and pain, was devotion itself. All her life long lived the songs which, with voice and piano, she rendered so well. Each stanza devoted to Father, Mother, Sister, and Brother began 'Be kind.' In her earlier life, Anna Valeria Hess, later the mother of Quandril, though her parents had been married in the old Crown Street Reformed Church, followed the ritual and credal forms of the Reformed Church of Switzerland, later called the German Reformed Church and now known as the Reformed Church in the United States. She attended the First Independent Church from her maiden years, where Rev. John Chambers was the pastor, and it was there that she was married. In her self-culture, Quandril's mother was fond of poetry and writings that verged on the sublime. One of her favorites was Henry Kirke White, though she also admired the standard English novelists and Byron.
However, the book that strongly influenced her religious life was the Memoir of Harriet Newell, along with her journals, which went through many editions. This work profoundly influenced her mind, and for a time, around 1830 and later, she seriously thought of being a missionary to some country in Asia. Harriet Newell was the wife of Judson. Her interest in the Orient may have been stimulated by the establishment of the Chinese Museum in Philadelphia, located at Ninth and Sansom Streets. This permanent exhibition helped educate the American people about things pertaining to China, the oldest living nation with a civilization based on the Semitic commandment, 'Honor thy father and thy mother, that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee.' This is the secret of national longevity.
Quandril's mother's longing to help the people of Asia remained strong even after assuming the responsibilities of wifehood and motherhood. She continued to support missionaries in her work. Attending the Douglass College commencements in New Brunswick, N.J., she vowed that if God gave her a son, she would dedicate him to the gospel ministry, and that Rutgers should be his college. Her firstborn son, named Montgomery Ezekiel Patterson, after a prominent citizen of New Brunswick, fulfilled her wish. He became a fine, large, stalwart man and, though active in the church and Sunday School, did not become a missionary. Instead, he became a sailor boy like his ancestors before him. In the large ship Northern Crown, he made his first voyage around Cape Horn to Callao, Peru. Later, he joined the United States Navy during Buchanan's administration and served in the Civil War on the Powhatan and Nantucket, rising to the rank of chief engineer. Despite being offered a gift of 160 acres of farmland in Iowa, he chose to settle on a farm near Petersburg, Va., with his bride.
However, the mother's prayers for a son dedicated to the gospel ministry were answered in her second son. He received his mother's blessings when he enlisted in the 124th Regiment of Pennsylvania Volunteers in 1863, and her desire was gratified when he heard and heeded the call to the gospel ministry. He entered Rutgers College in September 1865 and graduated in the class of 1869. She read The Targum, a newspaper he edited along with Robert C. Pruyn, and heard his eager wish, hope, and belief that a women's college would be established in New Brunswick—a dream that was fulfilled in 1916. She heard him preach several times before he went to Japan in governmental service to train teachers, teach chemistry, and organize public schools based on the American system.
Before Quandril's mother drew her last breath, she knew of the probability of her firstborn child going to Japan as well, though not in the exact way she had imagined. Nonetheless, her early desire to help the people of Asia was partially fulfilled. Her close association with those who went down to the sea in ships made her think often of the sailors. One of her favorite texts, often quoted with a sigh or silent solemn prayer, was: 'There is sorrow on the sea; it cannot be quiet.'
Perhaps early in life, Quandril discovered that she was not as beautiful, charming, or magnetic as some other girls. She may have heard remarks or comparisons made between her and her more attractive companions. However, there was one boy who grew to manhood and could not imagine, and to this day can scarcely believe, that any other maids or matrons could excel in any possession of feminine charms those of his native city. He also found his oldest sister very comely in person as well as lovely in character.
Whatever Quandril's feelings may have been, she was a very popular girl at school, for she early learned the charm of unselfishness. It was likely a healing balm to her if other girls outshone her in personal beauty or social attractions, as it turned her towards more fruitful directions than outward rivalry or ambition. Despite the enormous multiplication of amusements for young folks in American cities, often dominated by monopolists, syndicates, and corporations controlling numerous showplaces and performers, it is doubtful that children of seven or eight decades ago were any less happy than children today. Childhood knows no boundaries of time or borders of space. It is independent of clocks, politics, or forms of government. Just as today, children found joy in dancing and skipping when they were happy, and they cried and made woeful faces when in gloom. In those days with Barnum and other delightful humbugs, Signor Blitz and other alluring tricksters, Van Amburgh's lions and the monkey chain, Van Eich, the clown and comedians, the live fat woman and the dead in the Chamber of Horrors, the bearded female, the organ grinders and their apes, the Italians who sold plaster of Paris masterpieces, the woman who traded shiny gilt china for old clothes, the soap fat man at the alley gate, and the famous two-horsed omnibuses that ran all over town to 'The Exchange,' the enchantments of Fairmount, and the steamboat rides down the Delaware to the Elysian fields of Red Bank and Gloucester, all brought the same joy to the little human animals in the 1850s as they do in today's decades. Our cups ran over with joy.
In addition, the great festivals of the Christian year, belonging to no one sect or corporation, were ours to enjoy fully. We celebrated Christmas, New Year's, Easter, Thanksgiving Day, and added to that, the Fourth of July and school vacations turned their festivities to the year-round, and with all various mythology and pretty customs, emblems, and symbols associated with these holidays, gradually discerning what was religious, what national, and what was founded on fact. It took many years, however, to find out the difference between facts and what was accepted as fact in religion and school histories. In these days, when we use the kaleidoscopes of literature, history, and life, seeing that all fairy tales are alike in being woven of the same materials, that every maker of movies, novels, poems, and whatever leads people to believe that there is something new under the sun knows only too well that there are only seven plots for all stories but twenty-three original jokes, as Mark Twain remarked. 
These are all in the Old Testament if we have eyes to see them. All machines are already in human or other animal bodies, if we know it. Yet when life was new and hearts were light, everything else seemed new also. In later years, we discern also that happy are we if, as the animal impulses and spirits flag, the years may bring even the more delightful philosophic mind, and that if body, mind, and spirit are equally educated, then the most durable satisfactions of life come after we are sixty. In any event, as to theory, Quandril brimmed the cup of the joy in life, youth, and verified, however there be sweet experience, at evening time it shall be light. Those who could not see the glories of the sunset, as Turner saw them, we must remember his reply, "Don't you wish you could?" Yet surely the promises of God, as written in the library of inspiration, are true and may be verified. In those days, the fertility in American families was more of a high moral principle, a matter of conscience and duty, and a satisfying joy than in these days when the duty of maintaining the ideals of the nation's founders is left chiefly to people of foreign birth. A glance at the census of the clans whose names were blended in Quandril's name and blood shows this: On one side were one brother and three sisters, on the other, four sisters. In the total of these families, one wife was barren, and one woman unmarried. Of these, there were born in the second generation, a total of 41 children: two, four, five, seven, four, and ten. Of the marriages, one was in one case to a widower with two children, and in another to a widower with two children and in another, who with his two wives was the father of twenty-one children, while the uncle of another had nineteen. As far as is known, the brothers of these husbands were married and fathers of children. In the families of our mother's cousins, there were two daughters in one and four children in the other. All the persons thus far mentioned were native-born Americans and of the Reformed faith, or Protestant, except one who was a polished Irish Roman Catholic gentleman from Dublin. Of Quandril's three brothers, the children born were seven and ten respectively (I left his own three out), while they, in turn, their males being all native Americans, kept up the traditions of true patriotism. In the Civil War, no fewer than ten of our immediate relatives were in the Union army and navy. Quandril often heard her mother say that no woman should marry unless she purposed to bear and patiently rear children. In a word, she was a typical American, our mother. Quandril never joined that great body of freshmen, the self-deceived or those led astray by corporations religious, commercial, pharmaceutical, medical or catch-penny caterers of amusement, or makers of alleged remedies for poverty, disease, or the mental ills of mankind, who, when they coin a new word or freshly apply or spell wrongly an old one, think they have a new idea. Some of her comments on the popular novels of (or?) shows of the day, and on the fads of religion of mind or body cure, or what is contained in move fast like ships that have loose bottles with alluring labels, or in sk.ti ll s a very small helm hinted at by St rudder but James, were very spicy. Usually, with her, a condensed one-syllable adjective contained a volume of critical judgment. 
With realistic novels and those positively miry and morass-like with "analysis," she was more than sarcastic. We often found her on the stool of repentance or in the depths of self-accusation or self-abasement because she had followed out the recommendation of friends - the ultra and had wasted time and brain power on the novels which disappointed her. Commonplace people in the flesh or on the printed page she could not abide, and the dribbling of their conversation was nausea to Quandril, in her youth, had enough mental discipline obtained in feeding on the husks of pre-millenarians, spiritualism, and various religions of Yankee, Italian, or other ethnic origins to appreciate the resources found in the Eternal Word, the promises and truths of which were a lifelong delight and comfort. In early life, one neighbor who lived on bran crackers only for a month, and then in his white robes sat on the roof near the chimney awaiting the coming of his Lord to reign on the earth for a thousand years. His disappointment taught Quandril to be ever vigilant in watchfulness and prayer and to look for the coming of her Lord in other ways and directions than from either the zenith or nadir. She never yielded to that despair or pessimism out of which most chiliastic and pre-millenarian notions are born. 
Yet, since the city of Philadelphia, before consolidation - the celebration of which in 18.. with parades and illumination was so much enjoyed and is so well remembered - was made up of various liberties or boroughs, we often worshiped in the Commissioner's Hall. There, we heard the eloquent sermons of Dr. Charles S. Lorrs. Afterwards, the singing preacher Rev. Sylvester Burnham painted with words the glories of the New Jerusalem whose coming, the date of which was duly, as the exact minute, was announced by the street preachers. It seemed to be as well known as something is to the infallible pope or the moment of creation as stated in an old author to be at 9 A.M., 4004 B.C. While the years of experience blew away the chaff, it was a wheat harvest today, three hundred and sixty-five days every year, to those who got their religion neither from centralized corporations in Europe nor from the preachers of a passing fancy. (Group of pages which seem to go here): In the evolution of civilized society, the school and the library gradually assume much of the functions formerly monopolized by 'the church.' By this term is not meant the hierarchy that seeks to control emotion, conscience, education, ritual, and mental habits of every soul within its clutch, nor even what is usually called 'Christianity,' from which it is to be hoped the religion of Jesus may emerge, much as astronomy has grown out of astrology and chemistry from alchemy. Quandril felt a shift toward what she called secular or 'worldly' education. Early in her life, Quandril began reading, usually supplemented with notebooks, not only of the literature of the age but of the ages.
 Possible not less in value than the intellectual discipline and mental development of inherent powers made under good teachers are the friendships formed during this era when souls are as the plastic material under the artist's hands. It was in our Twentieth Street home that my sister committed to memory so much of Longfellow's poetry and eagerly welcomed the fresh volumes as they dropped from the press - as, for example, 'Evangeline' in 1847, 'The Courtship of Miles Standish' in 1858, with many later volumes, even to 'Keramos,' when Japan was thrown in the brotherhood of nations - these, clothed in an external dress of beauty, were also richly freighted with noble thoughts and inspiring sentiments. Endowed with a memory receptive and disciplined, as well as with a soul sensitive to the beauty and melody of poetic numbers, she shared these qualities with others. Among the happiest of memories are the Twilight Hour, when lying on the sofa and sister Margaret in her rocking chair, I heard many of Longfellow's 'footfalls in the corridor of time.' When in the Philadelphia Seminary (1875-1881), the poet sent messages to my sister and once visited the school to the rapture of her pupils. (Following is an odd page, which might as well go here.): I think it must have been my sister's early association with Longfellow's poetry that made her love his works so devotedly. She not only enjoyed reading them often but also committed many of his verbal gems to memory. Especially during the Twilight Hour, as I lay on the sofa in our Twentieth Street home, did I enjoy her reciting these aloud to me. I remember especially "The Old Clock on the Stairs" with its rhythmic refrain "Forever—never." In the early winter of 1923, while spending a month in Pittsfield, serving the church of which the father of the famous writer, William Stearns Davis, was minister and favored by the veteran librarian Millard, I looked with interest at the old house in which the clock stood and in which the poem was written. 
(Another old page):
 Coming home from college and repeating the remark of our erudite teacher, the honored president of Rutgers College (said to be the original of the "Doctor Lavender" of Margaret Deland's stories) that he who read "The Tatler Doctor" by Southey and looked up and absorbed all its literary references was a learned man, Quandril and her cousin, a maiden of like tastes, determined to trace out and be familiar with all the references to persons, events, and things in "St. Elmo" by Augusta Evans. It was one of the sensational novels and, commercially speaking, one of the "best sellers" of the day. 
This habit of not passing over erudite references, if not then begun, was at least continued during most of her studious years. To this end, we kept several of the most useful works of reference upon shelves in the dining room, in order to "make haste while the sun shines" and to "strike while the iron is hot." Before she reached her teens, Quandril could play well upon the piano, and her fondness for music made this instrument the almost daily occasion for family gatherings. Father would sing of Napoleon "on a lone barren isle" and tell stories in prose and rhyme of heroes and heroines such as Alonzo the brave and the Fair Imogene. Her brother Montgomery had a fine voice, and next to his was another that roared out, "Oh! of all the mighty nations from the East or in the West, This glorious Yankee Nation is the greatest and the best." That was when "Uncle is (was) rich enough to give us all a farm." We all sang together "Be kind to thy father, mother, sister, brother," etc. Saturday night was sacred to lustration, when every juvenile in the family was well soused, scrubbed, and washed for Sunday. Yet, strange as it now may seem, stationary bathtubs and bathrooms with tubs, pipes with hot and cold water, and the equipment in nickel, tiles, porcelain, etc., were not common until 1850. It was in this year that President Fillmore installed the first bathtub in the White House at Washington. Nevertheless, though conveniences for Saturday night, the sousing of all the little ones, and for stand-up scrubs, round or oval tubs were in many places early and well. The hip bath of painted tin was not only very common but an article as often seen with travelers as a hatbox. Yet the personal habits of life today, as compared with earlier times, whether in Europe or America, seem very modern. This is demonstrated at such places as Bath and York, for example, in England, where have been excavated the baths, pipes, and personal washing facilities of the Romans, after they had been covered with the dust and dirt of over thirteen centuries. Our savage, semi-savage, semi-civilized, and even our highly-fashionable ancestors in England did not imitate the Romans, and even at Bath, England, despite its name, the revelation of Roman cleanliness was not made until 19--. 
Yet when in our home, we did not have a piano, and individual and family music cannot be remembered by the biographer, though the early memories are very vivid. We went to divine worship and Saturday School at the Presbyterian church of Dr. Duffield, at which, even when he was a boy, our cousin William Elliot was the organist. Sunday afternoon was our halcyon hour, for then our father was at home, and we were on his knees or at his neck, and the contents of a treasured box of candy were distributed to us. It was not until making our home at South Twentieth Street, four doors below Chestnut, that Quandril's higher education in church, school, and society began, for now came her grand opportunities. There being then, in 1855, no women's colleges established, Quandril's father sought out what was considered to be the best school for girls, which was one conducted by the Rev. Dr. and Mrs. Patton on Sumner Street. Here Quandril, having mastered the rudiments, entered the pearly gates of enchanted land - literature and languages, so that in time, French and German, especially the former, became almost as her native tongue. Of this fact, I often made proof when we were in Europe together, while in her memory, as in a great storehouse of gems, began the accumulation of poetry and prose, romance, history, and erudition. At this time, when California and its gold were the outward lures for thousands of young men from the East, here were the quiet gems of that "inner ornament" of so much greater value than gold or gems. If our built-up neighborhood seemed rather fresh in spots, some at least of the neighbors were illustrious. Let me picture the environment of our home from 1855 to 1858. When William Penn laid out his city - the first one in America regularly surveyed and planned with parks - he made the sections between thoroughfares "squares." In New York, they call these "blocks." Both are true to form. Penn put a park at each angle of his projected city, and these - Franklin, Washington, Rittenhouse, and Logan - with Independence containing the State (Stad or city) House or Independence Hall in the center, are still called what they were and are, "squares." At a distance measured by three or four of these squares to the westward lay the Schuylkill River, so named by the Dutch, meaning the hidden Kill or stream. 
Directly between us and it were few buildings. Philadelphia was then a city built wholly of brick - much like Babylon of old, the form and "lay" of which Penn had taken as his model, while yet hoping to make it like the Heavenly Jerusalem that "lieth four-square," for Pennsylvania was "a holy experiment." To the right or north of us, a few rods distant, rose the Brickmaker's Methodist church edifice - now used as a stable. It was attended by our maid named Mary Ann Stone, a devotedly pious person who once, in answer to a query as to differences, enlightened our youthful intellect by showing the differences that divided the sects. Probably and happily for her, this was all she saw when she said, "A Presbyterian stands where he prays" - as was then the usual custom of the men in public worship - "but a Methodist kneels." One square to the southward - Sansom Street being between - was Walnut Street, the space between nineteenth and twentieth where now rises in majesty Holy Family Church, being then occupied by a marble yard - the two young sons of the boss being my schoolmates. Population was moving rapidly westward. Here, also in Holy Trinity, rose to fame that devoted lover of man, servant of Jesus, grand preacher, and large-hearted man, Phillips Brooks, who was years afterward in Boston 
'NEG NEG NEG MCG 36. a warm friend and clerical neighbor. He found Christianity higher than his corporation. When about to visit Japan, he asked me, and I outlined for him, his itinerary in Japan. He told me afterward that of all the shrines of religion and holy places, that of Nara had most impressed him. When in 1880 we had in our lecture room in Shawmut Church, a reception to the officers and members of the White Squadron, the Japanese cabin boys attended, receiving special attention from the future bishop of Massachusetts. Not then, however, were the stately mansions and the noble church edifice, which later made this neighborhood in Philadelphia the center of worship, fashion, and fame. Yet already were notable or delightful neighbors, in our square or not far away. Among these were the Grebles. One daughter of biblical name and Quandril being devoted schoolmates and friends. Hannah's brother Edward, later father of a West Pointer, was my schoolmate. The older brother, who married the daughter of the chaplain at West Point, was the first officer of the U.S. regular army killed in battle during the Civil War. At the end of the square lived ex-mayor Hon. Richard Vaux, of luxuriant hair, who had danced with Queen Victoria - near by were the Frisbies - one of them a colonel, and close to us were the McNeilles, one of whom, a Yale graduate, became a Congregational Minister in New England. In the same block of houses, nearly next door, was a playmate, son of Mr. Ruschenberger, the illustrious surgeon and author, who had been on Commodore Wilkes' Exploring Expedition around the world. Just back of our house, stretching from Chestnut to Sansom Street - mansion in front - gardens and stables in the rear - for it was the day of fine horses and handsome equipages - lived the famous Madame Rush, social queen of the Quaker City, whose receptions to her friends and distinguished foreign guests furnished thrills and gossip for the whole city. The boys of the neighborhood could always conjecture the number of guests present the night before from the relatively high heaps of champagne corks thrown out next day, with the faded flowers, on the vacant lot adjoining. Once, when a certain twelve-year-old boy was sledding with his companions, the venerable Dr. Rush threw up the front window and in a voice not over-persuasive, bade us go elsewhere. This elderly personage was none other than the son of the illustrious Benjamin of Revolutionary fame. Over a half-century, rather a cycle of Cathay (60 years) afterward when I had read Dr. Benj. Rush's Philosophy of the Human Voice and counted up the number of persons, numbering six, who had talked with George Washington, and with whom I had talked, and being obliged to include Madam Rush's husband in the six or more, I could only hope that my youthful answer to the ultimatum on sledding was not saucy or lacked respect for age. The reader will guess that our neighborhood was one in which lived some people of local, and possibly of national fame, while the family names notably reflect the facts that in later life came home to my sister and myself, namely, that we Americans are a very composite people and that Philadelphia was certainly cosmopolitan in the ethnic stocks forming the main body of her first, that is, her oldest families. 
In the afternoon years of life, it became our pleasure and joy when studying national psychology, and the origins of the American people after prolonged research and travel in Europe, to trace out and recognize each of these names of families as belonging to the British strain or to Huguenot, Walloon, French, German, and other sources, and to note the gifts, graces, and inheritances of each. Three doors southward lived our playmate Harry Bispham, an artist always busy with drawings, which for the most part were reproduced scenes and heroes in the novels we read in common. Later he won fame as an animal painter, his first triumph being a lion's face. Asleep and awake in calm majesty and when roused to furious expectation on seeing his bloody diet, the lion king of sneaks as well as the reputed lord of the jungle - was studied by Harry Bispham, and the artist's triumph was manifest - Harry's cousin was David Scott Bispham, the famous singer with whom in later years I met him on my lecture tours, boyhood friendships were renewed. These are but a few of the names which, when living, were prominent in the current periodicals, who in Philadelphia were our neighbors. Most of them illustrated the evanescence of human fame, glory, and social prestige, though more than one is "immortalized" in bronze. "The names he loved to hear have been carved for many a year On the tomb." Oh, why should the spirit of mortal be proud? since neither wealth, renown, nor glory can save from oblivion? In the diverging paths of life, the severing of once common interests, the pitfalls of chance, the change of fortune - the shattering of the ties of youthful friendship and the dissipation of the dreams and hopes of adolescence, the abysses that opened at the marriage altar as well as at the tomb, are like social earthquakes or tidal waves that obliterate the past and create new landscapes. Yet in our musing hours, what would we not give to know the inward and true life-history of some of those we once thought bound to us in an eternity of friendship's bonds? How finely has Philip Gilbert Hamerton treated this theme in his fascinating book on Human Intercourse. These three years from 1855 to 1858 formed, I think, relatively (even as an infant learns more in its first two, more than in any other duet of years in all its later life) the era of Hannah's best growth. All her hereditary powers seemed to expand while the environment was stimulating. Church, school, the home library and influences, with the friendships made in this period of life - usually the most enduring - combined to produce the "perfect woman nobly planned" for her chosen work in life. We may now look one by one at these four factors. 
The first - Independent Church had thousands of adherents. Its edifice stood on the spot now occupied by the North American newspaper edifice - at Broad and Sansom Street. Built in ..., it was enlarged in ..., and in our day was in this era at the flood tide of spiritual and material prosperity. Its leader John Chambers, already ... years its pastor, was at the peak of his fame and influence. Not technically a scholar, his personal magnetism, combined with a keen sense of humor, an unlimited fund of anecdote and illustration, and a marvelous power of winning men and women, allured all to know and understand and follow their sovereign Teacher and Friend Jesus, the Son of God, was wonderful. At times, it seemed almost what we afterwards called hypnotism. Added to all this was his absolute fearlessness. He was a good deal braver than the real lion, while as bold as the idealized creature of tradition and heraldry, fearing not the face of man. His advice, both in general and in particular, to his church members, numbering over thirteen hundred, and the burden of his preaching, was this - "Study the Bible and do not be afraid of what you find in it." In a word, he believed that prayerful Bible study, diligence in Christian work, and a life in communion with Christ and God would, in the long run, absorb doubt, fear, timidity, laziness, and unbelief. Hence, the activity of this Gospel hive. During many years, our mother taught the largest class of young women, while Hannah had one of the younger girls. The friendships made at the Sunday gatherings were diversified, and mutual personal interests were deepened by the frequent evening assemblies at our home. Those for the adults, which the gentlemen attended, took, at the opening and closing moments, the nature of a social reception. 
At one of the most formal of these, our mother was presented with a copy of "The Republican Court" by Rufus W. Griswold. In this sumptuous volume, one could read of Philadelphia society when the city of Brotherly Love was the national capital and President and Martha Washington were the central figures. Our grandaunts, when little girls who had seen the father of his country at close range during the sad days of Valley Forge, had, as maidens in their teens, donned their white robes to join the throngs of maidens welcoming him as he rode from Mount Vernon to the presidency in New York, then a much smaller city than that by the Delaware. In like manner, they had greeted him when he returned to the one city of the colonies in which his ever-increasing honors had been successively bestowed upon him. As a delegate to the Constitutional Convention and as President of the United States, he lived during his second term in Philadelphia. In these four years, from 1793 to 1797, those who from childhood to womanhood often saw Washington, earlier in life, attended his receptions on Market Street. By a happy coincidence, one of these gatherings at our home, our aunt Hannah Darby, after a space of over sixty years, was present, while another, a Miss Benezet, had danced with Washington - all of which seemed to make history very real. Yet in those days, the federal supervision, so far as concerned postal services, did not extend to cities. The letters, notes, and valentines of that day that are still preserved bear the little transparent gold-lettered square red stamp of "Blood's Penny Post." It would be misleading to give the impression that the chief function of religion in the First Independent Church was more social than spiritual. On the contrary, solid biblical instruction at the Wednesday night lecture and the Friday evening prayer meetings were attended steadily by hundreds. There were nearly ninety men able to speak and pray acceptably in public. Inspirational and conscience-searching preaching and worship, with morning and afternoon sessions on Sabbath days, two sessions, morning and afternoon, of the Sunday school, and a crowded prayer meeting in the evening, made up a program of six regular services in one week. All these we steadily attended, nor have we any remembrance of long, gloomy, tiresome Sundays. Underneath all was a strong current of the revival spirit, which culminated in the great awakening of 1858 when daily prayer meetings at the Sansom Street Baptist Church and young people's gatherings in Concert Hall, the preaching of delegations from Northern Ireland - among them H. Grattan Guinness and John Hall - made a season to be remembered. 
Afterwards in New York, as the pastor of the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church, in which Jowett and Kelman later brought to us Americans the ripeness of Christian culture from the Old World, John Hall was a power in American life. It may be assumed from this sketch of one of the most active churches in Philadelphia under the leadership of one of its greatest preachers, who always sought to reach the citadel of the human being, to him being the conscience, that the faith of Hannah was solidly built on the Rock of Ages, and that her personal religion was deep, warm, and strong. One of the interests ever at the front was the enterprise of foreign missions, and the Monthly Concert of Prayer was one of the most lively and interesting of meetings, rich in information, stimulus, and inspiration, working in cooperation with the American Board of Foreign Missions, of which long afterward the biographer was made a corporate member. It was on the crest of the wave of interest among young people that the missionary ship Morning Star was built and launched. She was the first of several successors to the "little boat" for which, on the shores of Galilee, the Master asked his disciples for service as a floating pulpit. Among the thrills that came to us of tidings from afar was the reading from the Evening Bulletin, of the Treaty of Tientsin in 1858; through which, said he, with deep emotion, "China is opened to the gospel." 
There were two or three sequels to this event in later years, which are worth mentioning. In 1872, while dining at Yokohama at the British Legation, Sir Harry Parkes, Great Britain's brilliant plenipotentiary in Japan, he told me something of his part, even to treacherous capture and imprisonment, in these events in the China of 1858. In the same seaport, I met with Rev. Joseph Legge, who, besides his prodigious and self-imposed task of translating the Chinese classics, told me that in the course of his career he had baptized one hundred adult Chinese Christians. I also met, while in Japan, and in subsequent years, scores of successful missionaries who had taken part in the renewal of China's youth. Another was the meeting in Tokyo, and long dwelling as a neighbor, with Lulu Aldrich, the little (orphan) daughter of a Chinese Christian pastor, through whom I had in her Sunday Bible Class for many weeks. She became the first graduate from the Woman's Medical College in Philadelphia and later head of the hospital for women in Peking. The friendship begun in Japan was renewed two decades later at Ithaca, NY. She was one of the pioneers in women's new era in China.
Chapter... Culture in the Quaker City. 
Early in life, Quandril made up her mind to engage in the practice of thorough systematic and habitual self-culture. To this end, she endeavored to find out and become acquainted with the best books in various languages - especially those termed classics: that is, those which have survived all hostile criticism and, amid the changes of taste and fashion, still find readers who, for the first time, make their acquaintance. Such books - few indeed in numbers - are the peaks of human intellect, knowing no time, nor made to wither because of age.
Although Philadelphia was perhaps the first home of public libraries, and Pennsylvania the birthplace of the first Bible published, as well as the largest piece of printing done in the United States before the Revolution, the development of the press, as we know it in our age, had not yet begun. All the more effective, accessible, and generally useful were the Sunday School libraries, while also the Philadelphia and Apprentices' Libraries did a good work. Yet not least in importance were the home libraries. Quandril's father, besides having seen many lands and peoples, had gathered a large library of books, embracing standard and popular literature, which was kept in a room by itself, "the Library." This was open to all of us, and long and well we browsed therein. One special collection, his hobby, was that of all the books we could get hold of which spun theories as to "The Lost Tribes." Who, what, and where, in the nineteenth century, they were. In ethnology and geography, these derelicts were located the world around. In fancy and misapplied research, they ranged from the Japanese to the Britons, and from the Afghans to the Iroquois. I do not know whether our father came to the conclusion to which his son finally arrived, that the only thing lost was their records of pedigrees or genealogies. It was, however, highly amusing, even though the roots of the old Japanese and Semitic tongues are much alike, to meet in Japan the Scotsman McLeod, who knew his English Bible from "In the beginning" of Genesis to the "Amen" of Revelation but apparently not much else. He was perfectly sure that the Japanese (though made up, as science has demonstrated, of four races, Aryan, Semitic, Malay, and Tartar) were the "lost tribes." and the 'Dispersion of Israel.' Nor is it surprising what a man with a 'bee in his bonnet' can find or think he has discovered. Quandril amused herself, when in form, by looking at McLeod's locally printed and execrably illustrated books. Part of nearly every week's fun from October to May was the welcoming and examination of our father's purchases at book auctions, on which, especially on Saturday nights, he was an inveterate attendant. Occasionally he brought home rich treasures. He was deft at extracting honey even when bees were swarming, that is, he often read an author to turn his ears upon him. Notably, he knew Holley's 'Ruins' almost by heart, but rather to establish his own faith in God and the Christ. He read incessantly to the last and was generous in communicating to his children what he gleaned and thrashed out. Especially at the supper table, he was communicative of what he had read in books and periodicals and the day's news. At least among the influences shaping Quandril's mind were the friendships made with men and women outside her school circle. 
Among those most frequently at our house were three young men: Justus Selvonridge, who married our cousin and became the father of the Congressman of that name; John Bliss, afterwards a Presbyterian minister; and John Wanamaker, whose warm friendship never flagged until the hour of the final parting. Whether in high office in the cabinet at Washington or as a merchant prince, his autograph letters and warm expressions of affection were numerous and constant."
Chapter... A Brave Venture
Possessing the spirit of initiative, it was Quandril's determination not only to receive but to give, not alone to be favored but to impart. She had a conscientious purpose to make herself worthy of what she possessed or enjoyed, whether food, sleep, clothing, pleasures, or privileges. She wanted to earn in order to enjoy, to have and waste not. What she was to gain she would gain for herself. There was no economic, family, social, or personal pressure that took her south, or even to earn her own personal expenses or make a livelihood. But the spirit of adventure, desire for usefulness, and the determination to test her faith in God were traits predominating in her until the end of life. She found the "holy doctrine we profess" in the Bible, her guide, and resolved to let her hope and life express it.
Let us appeal to the records to see how far her brother's lifelong impressions, here set down, are photographically accurate. Here are a few extracts from her journal:
"Wednesday, December 9, 1857: ... (Perhaps some pages missing here? )... In this period of adolescence, when she was rounding out to full womanhood, her life was varied by acting as bridesmaid to her cousin Miss Sarah Taylor of Baltimore, who married the Rev. Edwin Newberry. She went to that city for the ceremony and festivities, and when she returned, at least one of her brothers thought her a very winsome maid. Yet whatever other admirers may have said to her or thought of her - and her opportunities to marry were more than one - neither her fancies nor her feelings ran in the line of marriage. She was determined to carry out her plan and fulfill her ideal of what her life's work should be, as a teacher of young girls. To fit herself for that end, she believed that travel, seeing other parts of her own country first - with the hope of seeing Europe later when, after reading and study, she could best appreciate what she was to see - was the proper thing. She determined, therefore, to go south and teach in a family as a governess, though this was rather a plucky venture for a girl of nineteen. There were many reasons, both because of relatives and the glamour of the romantic South in slavery days, that attracted her to southern people. Those whom she had met in the North and in Philadelphia had made the most pleasing impression upon her young soul. Just how the lines fell to her in the pleasant places of Western Tennessee, I cannot tell."
It was on Wednesday, December 8, 1857, that she resolved to leave the loved ones among whom she had been indulged and cared for, to spend a year among strangers.
"Having had a good education, she would put it to use for the benefit of others."
"There is one book of her journals, still extant, beginning at Merriwether, Tenn., January 1, 1858. After the excitements of travel were over and in the reaction of homesickness that comes upon one, she thus records her feelings and impressions: 'Thus I begin the record of the new year in a far-off country among strangers, yet not strangers; warm and, I trust, true friends they have become in the week I have spent with them, and may I spend the time that is coming in such a manner that when this year shall have come to its close, I shall not be found the worse for its passing, but better, far better in spirit and mind than now, leaning on the Arm of One mighty to save, in His strength and in His love, living and doing nobly and well, a blessing to those around me and not a burden.'"
From this date onward, until November 5, 1913 - about a month before exchanging worlds - her journals, not strictly speaking diaries, but continuous and habitually kept, enable her biographer not merely to chronicle her career, but also allow her to speak often in her own words in telling the story of her experiences as a governess and teacher, as one who, like all women, suffered during the Brothers War, as a traveler in Europe, as a pioneer educator in Japan, as an instructor of American young women for twenty-four years, and as a conductor of tourists in Europe again, and as her brother's helper in research, translation, and criticism, while her vigor lasted, and as resting after the toils of life in the educational capital of the Empire State, Ithaca, N.Y., where, amid her loved ones, on December 9, she fell asleep. We thought her dying when she slept and sleeping when she died. We could be sure that the spirit had flown when the mirror held before her lips gave no sign of moisture or of life. (Died 15 Dec 1913) (Probably some pages missing between foregoing and following) - It was like entering a new world, thus to change from life in a city rich in all the resources and associations of culture, to that of the country routine in Western Tennessee in 1858. The city of Philadelphia was in many ways the home of American first things. It has from the beginning been laid out on a definite plan. It had a century of history even before it became the focus of the gathering forces of the thirteen colonies and the capital of the nation. From 1793 to 1797, it was the national capital and for generations following, the literary center of America. Here also were such national institutions as the Mint and the Navy Yard, in the city so affluent in historic glories. Whether in this panegyric written by a native, he exaggerates or depreciates, this at least is certain: that after having lived in the great cities north of Virginia and leisurely visited every one of the capitals of colonial origin on the Atlantic coast and the cities from Augusta in Maine to Savannah in Georgia, he is sure that in none other, having a history from colonial days, did the general elements of comfort, culture, rich and inspiring historical inheritances and associations, with libraries, University, museums, and national amusements, combine to enrich life more than the Quaker City. 
It is equally certain that few maidens within its bounds understood and appreciated more the wealth of her inheritances than did Quandril. Jeffrey - settled age of 99, December 1851. A most happy break in the journey by railway that knew not then the luxuries and comforts of today was a week spent in Huntsville, Alabama. Here she met her former instructors Rev. Dr. and Mrs. Patton and their daughter, her schoolmate, Mary. This was one of the golden weeks of her life. Four years later, the Republic of the Confederate States of America was proclaimed in this beautiful city.
 (According to page numbers, the next page is missing) 
There were times when she lay under the Juniper tree, when the outlook on life was neither in a crystal ball nor into a sea of glass, through which the universe - and what is to most of us the center of it - could be seen in that order and beauty in which at other times it seemed to be ruled. 
Copy from Book 1 p. 35 from "I am lonely" to "the joy of thy lord." Quandril's picture of her environment at Meriwether is probably a good verbal photograph of the average house, personnel, and surroundings of a Southern home in 1858 under the old economic system.
 Copy p. 13 from "The House is built of logs" to "the cheerful black faces around me." 
On a new page of this copy p. 17, from "Sometimes I feel" to "deprived of them for a time." 
Copy (new sheet) Wednesday Feb 24, p. 19, from "One of the servants" to "and I feel encouraged." 
Copy new sheet p. 7 from "Early Sunday morning" to "shall care much to go again.")
 (Copy new page p. 9 ."I cannot realize" - "nature's beauty around me"
Copy new page p.20 "now changeable" - "I am one with them"
Very many are the references in Quandril's journal to the charm of Southern society and the attractive personal qualities of the Southerners. Here are 
Copy p.55 "Thike" - "very reserved"
 Copy p.10 "miss my home" - "free from all such restraints" "That carried her to paradise on the stairways of surprise" was the page 2.3.0.1 of the early spring. At least a month before similar developments of "the splendor of the grass and the glory of the flower that she had hitherto seen in the latitude of Pennsylvania, were like phenomena in Tennessee. The onward march of bloom and glory was like that of an army with banners. Especially striking were the peach orchards whose splendor quite overcame all her usual associations, for not even in Delaware had she beheld such areas of massed bloom. After the Civil War, the writer remembers his trip along the fortifications thrown up at Petersburg, Va. by both armies. Whereas on the northern side there was barrenness, on the southern side there was a veritable forest of pink-blooming miles-long peach trees. The soldiers under General Lee, after refreshment, threw their peach stones over the top, unconsciously calling up a future vision of beauty. From first to last, what charmed her vision, her powers of perception, was the mighty river ever flowing. Not tidal like the Delaware or Schuylkill that attracted her earliest interest in nature, but now ever majestic southward, swelling and turbulent in springtime, rich and full in summer, and bare in winter, bearing on its flood. That seemed to be brawny continents of ice, now calm and serene, and now raging like a dragon, entwining all the land along its banks, as if it would devour all man's acres won and while fruitful by day, flecked by tiny sailboats or seemingly larger in proportions by the racing steamers. These at night looked like illuminated floating palaces called out of the distant darkness by some enchantment or transformed by the moon into a stream of silver, over which moved wealth and magnificence. The great river, the Mississippi, was to Quandril a perpetual delight, while it gave occasion for reflection and thanksgiving as one of God's wonders. Whether the emblem of peace or of power, of life in calm or storm, of Almighty wisdom or of the divine gift to the earth of fruitfulness, this daily vision of the Father of waters called up many a scriptural promise or metaphor. In the East, travelers think locally, most of this or that river, but in the central region, all ideas and associations center in this one mighty stream. Not wonderful, then, that when four years later, with the armies on land and the forces afloat, the major strategy and struggle was for the possession of this nation's artery, whichever side held the Mississippi dictated also the future possession of the vast region of wealth and empire. While Quandril was in Tennessee, we all thought of her as dwelling, or at least nearing, upon Island No. 10. 
A historic parallel is recalled when one remembers that the whole strategy of the Revolution consisted in holding the Hudson River - the British plan being to isolate New England from the other colonies, a scheme which Washington craftily and successfully checkmated. During her abiding in Tennessee, having many a spare hour, Quandril kept up, as was her custom throughout life, her thorough self-culture and her reading of standard literature. She did not neglect the periodicals which were sent to her in abundance from home, happily then for real readers, the magazines and weeklies of that day were not the mammoth advertising sheets of our time when a very thin layer of what is often the thinnest literary papulum is sandwiched between bulky masses of wood pulp, forests of our destroyed forests, smeared, smothered, colored and lost in alluring and not notably truthful advertisements, wrought it may be into fine literary form, usually cast in the superlative degree of adjectival description, often quite as attractive as the alleged literary matter. The text, trumpeting in prose and poetry, and the pictures representing flamboyantly Smith's surpassing shoes, gloves or hats, the nectar excellent coffee of Jones, the ambrosial perfume of Robinson, the garment representing the last word in artistic tailoring, designedly Frenchy, had not yet reached a point where the capacity of the mails was taxed to the utmost and the white paper used was double or triple the price paid for what usually within a week became waste. Happily, Quandril, helped by her father's library, had learned early to discriminate between the fleeting and the permanent on the printed page. While also she knew the value of a quarter of an hour. Happily also she early understood the eternal difference between the literature of knowledge and the literature of power, as in religion between foundations of sand and rock. As an American people, like those in most young nations, are influenced and led away by slogans, she soon became quite clever in discerning real worth and true genius, as Madame de Staël's "Corinne," J.-J. Rousseau's "Julie" and "La Nouvelle Héloïse," Cooper's romances, Plutarch's Lives, Macaulay, Motley, and Prescott. Her Bible was first, last, always before her. In later years, there was the rapture of reading most of the Old Testament in the original Hebrew, while of Greek she mastered enough to search out and enjoy the primitive force of the choicest passages in the New Testament before they were distorted by corporations, fanatics, or bigots. One secret of her mastery, like the butterfly issuing in splendor from the dark interior of the cocoon, is intertwined with the little verse learned almost in her infancy:
"So little moments, humble though they be,
Make the mighty ages of eternity."
Never, until the burden of seven decades of years pressed upon her, did she have to "kill" time, and even then the treasures of memory, choice thoughts, and the recollection of varied experiences made "peace flow like a river." When Quandril agreed to the call to teach in the family of Mr. and Mrs. Isler, she expected to have pedagogical charge of three children, but as soon as her teaching abilities and attractive personality became known, others in the neighborhood, relatives, and others wanted to be taught or to learn music as an accomplishment. So Quandril, being in constant demand, was kept too busy to suffer painfully from homesickness, although this chronic malady was never wholly absent. She learned to love all her pupils, and her affection was warmly returned, so that as the day of separation approached, there was mutual sadness. The home of many magnates in Philadelphia, the mother being the chief, had lost no force of attraction because of distance. But duty if she would stay, Quandril felt she must say goodbye. Tears fell plentifully on that Sunday night of early October when began at the sound of the approaching steamer's bell, the linking and unlinking of arms around each other's necks of 16 children and their loved governess. Mr. Isler kindly accompanied Quandril homeward. They reached Cairo next day at noon. Waiting until 5 P.M., they took the train for Centralia, remaining overnight, and starting for Cincinnati, reaching it at night, rode all day over the prairie lands of Indiana and Illinois, Quandril was delighted with the neatness and thrift of the then Middle West. The change from the prairie purity of air and clearness of atmosphere to that of Pittsburgh, so grand but dirty and smoky, was severe upon the nerves. Quandril writes: "I was glad to get out of it (Pittsburgh), but I was enchanted as we came through our own state with its mountainous scenery and alone; the Valley of the..." I was charmed. At twilight, we crossed the Allegheny Mountains. They reached Street??1. Mr. Quandril ran up the stairs, knocked at her mother's bedroom door, and soon the whole household was up to kiss, laugh, and be unable to get to bed again, but chat till breakfast time. Now comes witness-bearing... I remember seeing a tall, handsome Southerner, who came about 10 A.M., standing in the parlor alongside my heroine sister - How little, yet how brave she seemed to me, to have gone so far in what to us seemed like virtual exile. Yet she was so lively and full of spirits and so rich in praise of her kind Southern friends! That it was a sort of mutual admiration party, I do not deny. The boy of fifteen who had not yet himself earned many dollars - for he was still at school but eager to enter the "open door" - was full of admiration for his sister, who had a little bag of gold double eagles sewed inside her bosom armor. The sister's venture had paid in coin as well as in faith and experience. For one who had been only as far as Baltimore and had lain awake all night with excitement the day before he was to see the great ocean at Cape May, N.J., this vision of a far-traveled sweetheart sister was thrilling. Like music to our ears was this Southern householder telling of Quandril's influence upon all she met and of her fine personal qualities of character. Many callers, including Dr. John Chambers, came during the day.
One of the really great events of 1860, national in character, was the visit of the first Japanese embassy to America and the appearance on the streets of Philadelphia of a considerable body of strangers in flowing robes from the Orient. It had been, of course, a matter of popular wonder as to who and what these people were, whom President Fillmore had invited to become our friends, we offering also to be theirs. Were they semi-savages, barbarians, or highly civilized? The newspapers had kept us informed of the movements of Commodore Perry and his squadron of ships sent out in 1852, and there had been some notice of the equally great work of Townsend Harris, who secured what Perry did not - a treaty of commerce and residence. Then we recalled the launching of the Ocean frigate Susquehanna, which we had witnessed a decade before. Moreover, in our homes and beginning to appear in the shops were tokens of the taste and deft craftsmanship of these islanders whose country, as believed by most Occidental folks, was some sort of an appendage to China. It was quite the fashion to name novelties "Japanese." When, however, we actually looked at these polished gentlemen in their well-fitting silk garb, noted their poise and ease of manner, the fine workmanship on their swords, and absence of all shabbiness and ostentation, at least one boy made up his mind that these strangers were far from being barbarians and even that possibly some of us, in comparison, were. There was a rare finish about the manners of these men which even an American lad, still under the discipline of tutors and governors, could see was not the result of a day but of long years of inheritance and practice. We later learned that contact with Occidental civilization was but half the secret of their modern renaissance.
Quandril was mightily interested, and happy indeed were we youngsters if we could get near the most popular person in the embassy. This was Tommy, who was voted the most interesting in the suite because he had a tongue like ours and could talk English and was apparently very fond of American ladies. To accompany me into the far interior, Tommy was inquired about and proposed as a candidate, but the officers chose another, Iwabuchi, more steady in his habits. The ship Powhatan was the American man-of-war on which Quandril's older brother afterward spent many months on cruises and in chasing the Confederate commerce destroyer Sumter. A dozen years later, I met in Japan at Shidjuoka, "the Saint Helena of Tokugawaism," some members of this embassy, which had been sent not by the Mikado or Emperor, but by the Shogun or military ruler, at the order of the feudal chief and regent Ii (Kason no Kami). The news of his assassination in Yedo then reached the embassy while they were in the United States. In 1921, at the armistice disarmament conference in Washington, Prince Tokugawa, whom I knew as a little boy at Shizuoka, in correspondence with the biographer, paid a splendid tribute to the American teachers in Japan.
Of this embassy, those highest in rank were but figureheads. The two men who won fame and were most useful to their nation were Katsu Awa, afterwards count and father of the Japanese navy, and Fukuzawa, founder of a University and a prolific and popular writer of books that have reached a total sale of probably five million copies. He declined all rank and honors and was called the "Great Commoner." We met these men in Tokyo, the new national capital, old Yedo, or the Bay Door city, so long the "hub" or center of feudalism, in 1869 became the Kyo or capital, that is, Tokyo - the Eastern capital; Kyoto being now Saikyo, the western capital. The latter term was soon dropped as it became more and more evident that the emperor would not return to the old classic Yamato, and that the seat of government would remain in the east, facing America and nearest to Yokohama. Fukuzawa became the great interpreter of the West to the East. One of his first books, Seiyo Jijo, Impressions of Western Countries, had an amazing influence in turning the minds of the Japanese to a friendly outlook upon the Occident.
Count Katsu Awa, one of the fifty-five great makers of the new Japan, had learned Dutch, which for over a century was the medium of foreign culture and communication with Europe and the West, thus steadily and grandly preparing the way for the Americans and Commodore Perry. Katsu was largely the means of getting started in Shizuoka, a school of foreign languages and science, for which I sent to America for Edward Narren Clark, my former college classmate and fellow traveler in Europe, who was the principal of this school. After a year or two in the interior, Clark was called to the Imperial University in Tokyo and occupied with us part of the large house in the compound, or enclosed area, in which lived the professors and instructors of the Imperial University. With our friend Clark, who afterward became a still more famous traveler, correspondent, and author of books such as "Katsu Awa," "Life and Adventure in Japan," and "From Hong Kong to the Himalayas," and who later conducted tourist parties around the world, our friendship on three continents was close for many years, as our story will tell.
After our home on Twentieth Street, we lived for one year or more on Walnut Street between Eighth and Ninth, across from the Walnut Street Theatre, the oldest in the United States. What we saw there did not impress us favorably with the life of actors and actresses, particularly with theater-goers. In fact, it rather prejudiced us against the theater as an institution. It always seemed difficult for us to believe in its having, on the whole, a positive influence for good. It seemed almost wholly for mere amusement. Later years, with abundant means of observation and some experience, did not greatly modify our earlier impressions. This did not hinder our warm friendship for the two nephews of the famous actor James W. Murdock, Hal and Frank Hitchcock. The latter was my chum and bosom friend for many years. We shared the closest confidences. Hal lost his life in the burning of the Brooklyn Theatre, while Frank was the author of plays in which Frank W. Mayo was the star performer for many years. The two boys and their mother, a widow, were often at our home.
With Quandril, I often went to enjoy the delightful readings of Mr. James W. Murdoch. He gave us an idea of the way in which grand literature, especially the Bible, should be rendered with the voice. His rendering of the fortieth chapter of Isaiah made a deep impression upon Quandril and her brother, who made it a habit, for his pulpit ministrations, always to study beforehand that portion from the Book of books which he was to read in public. He counted this exercise equal in its effect upon the worshipers, equal to that of the sermon - an opinion which I believe Quandril shared. Her criticisms, analysis, and appraisal of discourses were always valuable and edifying. In her education of young girls, she considered writing out on Monday what they could remember of the sermon heard the day before as one of the best exercises for mental discipline and cultivation of the faculty of attention. She noted among her pupils the great difference in both ability and desire to do this, yet soon perceived very clearly that those who persevered - until finally they excelled - made the most efficient women, and were best able to think clearly and act promptly. She saw that girls are naturally at first quicker in their mental movements than boys. Yet in comparison with their brothers, who were at first slower in their mental momentum, in the end, the boys went ahead of the girls because of their greater power and exercise of attention. Yet this difference she did not consider of necessity fixed or unalterable, but that the feminine student with opportunity and good training, who persevered in self-discipline, could equal the male in intensity and continuance of attention. Certainly, in her own self-culture and her power of work, especially the mastery of languages and literatures, she was a very good exponent of her own opinions.
Now, turning to the topic of women's culture in Japan, a history written by a native and one written by an outsider may seem contradictory, even though both agree on the facts. Neither may tell the truth. For one loyal to his sovereign in a centralized or despotic government, to write about education or the social forces that make a nation is more likely to provide amusement than edification to a critical foreign scholar. If one reads a Japanese official account of education or government after 1868, everything comes as a gift from the grace of the Emperor, and as a rule, the help of foreign servants is ignored. In contrast, the outsider knows a few facts worth considering in any true history.
Regarding the feminine half of the Japanese people, the regard shows that women are true "helps meet" for the men. History follows legend and poetry, though Japan has no history until after the fourth century. In the sixth century, letters, writing, Korean, and Chinese culture flowed in with the flood of the first great international religion, Buddhism, which lifted up the tribes - not yet, nor until the twelfth century, a true nation - into civilization. For five hundred years, women cultivated literature, for the capital, first in Nara and then Kyoto, was the center of learning and culture. Almost all the early classic literature is the work of women. The men were out on the frontiers, conquering the various tribes of aborigines that make up the Japanese composite. In the twelfth century, this work was virtually concluded, and then, under one general system of administration, law, and religion, there was a Japanese nation. But not Aryan, but rather Malay, Semitic, and Tartar, formed the ethnic result we call 'Japanese.' From this time until the seventeenth century, the literature was masculine and heroic, primarily focused on war and action. The center of administration was in Kamakura in the east, while the center of culture remained in Kyoto. This was followed by the rise of modern theater and novels, the introduction of Chinese philosophy (Cyomei), Dutch culture, the revival of critical linguistic and historical studies, and ultimately, the clash with Western ideas and the forces of an alien civilization. However, until 1868, the prevailing framework of morals, customs, and ideas in Japan was feudalism.
The introduction of the Confucian ethical system into Japan, on the whole, diminished the status of women. This can be observed in WECT MSS MCG 57, the standard work 'Onna Dai Gaku' (Woman's Great Learning) by Kaibara, which served as a cultural epitome for males. Until 1870, when reformers like Fukuzawa, Nakamura, and others, along with American teachers starting from 1860, initiated a revolution in sentiment and mental attitude towards female humanity, the 'Onna Dai Gaku' was considered the authoritative text on this subject. The first teachings of modern ideas were introduced by American missionary Mrs. J.C. Hepburn and Miss Miller. at the request of a Japanese physician on behalf of his daughters, Mrs. Hepburn to quote Baron Kikuchi's words, planted 'the seed corn out of which modern education for women in Japan began.'
The interior and unknown and unwritten history of Japan since President Millard Fillmore sent the American treaty squadron to Japan in 1853 is like that of the interior of the earth, below its visible crust, with opposing forces. The Japanese island chain is the product of internal cosmic energies, which, to our view, are not desirable—earthquake, volcano, tidal wave, and typhoon. Yet, in a longer view, these are beneficial. They are nature's parable of the progress of man, which has also been one of forces in opposition—call them what you may—the modernism and fundamentalism, radical and the conservative, the new and the old. The time had come in the nation's history when her women must share with men in the benefits of Japan's rebirth, when Occidental and insular culture were to blend and Oriental ideas be modified. The very fact that the 'Japanese' are a young people, not a day older than the 'English,' explains more than any other one fact or train of causes, the power to change, while interpreting the phenomena of politics, and the social-economic events so rapidly following contact with the West.
Yet, to leave out the work and personalities of the American teachers—Verbeck, Brown, Hepburn, Williams, Ballagh—in the days of feudalism, to say nothing of the great dual invasion of the hired foreign experts and the later missionaries, would be like leaving out of medieval history the pope and the influence of the Eternal City. The men who made the new government of 1868 and the era of Meiji (1867-1912) were culturally the product of the fusion of many lines of intellectual endeavor. These were the renaissance of ancient Japanese learning, the Oyomei or intuitional-pragmatic philosophy of China. To the extent of over one-half in numbers and power, they were the pupils of the American missionary Guido F. Verbeck. This citizen of no country filled their minds with ideas of educating young men and women abroad and bringing expert men from many nations to Japan. It was these men—the fifty-five creators—who put into the mouth of the young emperor the Charter Oath of 1868, which bound the new government to seek for learning and talent throughout the world to relay the foundations of the Empire.
Of the five thousand or so Yatoi, or salaried foreigners, including twelve hundred American teachers, employed between 1870 and 1900, Tanaka Fujimaro was the first to be called out from a foreign country, and she was the first teacher of women in a school founded by the government. The mention of the honorable Tanaka Fujimaro was made.
When in America, she sought not and declined invitations to see material improvements, factories, mills, furnaces, butcheries, or any features of the terrible industrial revolution that she saw clearly and knew only too well would smite Japan to her delusion and sorrow—unless tempered with wisdom and things spiritual, such as the Occident could give. Tanaka sought to know how Christians reared their children, conducted their home life, educated their girls, and the position accorded to women. She even sought to know the life of the nursery, family worship, and the phenomena of religion as separated as far as possible from priestcraft, sectarianism, and politics.
Returning to Japan and made Vice-Minister of Education, Tanaka pressed upon the Supreme Council of the Government the matter of beginning a school for girls. There was stout opposition—more or less veiled—to the idea, but finally, the school was opened by a temporary teacher, Mrs. Peter V. Vedder, the wife of Professor Veeder from the Imperial University. The native Japanese lady assistant was one of the former pupils educated by Mrs. Hepburn. (WECT MSS MCG 59).
After a few weeks, the Minister of Education, seeking a trained teacher as the principal of the school, called on Quandril offering her the position, giving her full authority to form the curriculum. So Mrs. Commander began her congenial duties in 1872, while giving all credit to our dear friend of many years, Mrs. J.C. Hepburn. It should be noted that hers was a missionary enterprise, while the one started at Hitotsubashi Go Mon Uchi (Inside of the Great Gate of the last shogun of Japan, Hidetada Tokugawa, ending the line of shoguns who ruled Japan from 1604 to 1628) was the beginning of the public school system in which girls shared equally with boys in national education. The school edifice, as I remember it (for I sometimes took my sister's place when she was indisposed), was in a temporary building, accommodating easily one hundred. The bridge that crossed the canal in front of the castle gate was called Ryo-Kei-Bashi, or Two-Case Bridge, and the school was called Ryo-Kei School. But far more interesting than any question of style in the hastily erected building, used for its purpose and not for ornament, was the personal status of the pupils, which revealed the interior social architecture of Japanese life. To know this by entering into the internals of Japan's history and records of evolution is to understand something even about what is usually so puzzling and mysterious to an outsider—politics, their mutations, and strange phenomena. For example, when some good people of the Lafcadio Hearn cult, those who praise the Japanese as super-men or show their profound ignorance of interior Japan by idealizing and romanticizing their native annals, or when grown-up natives—men mighty in fame, rank, and station—show that they accept the fairy tales of their nursery days as real history, it is for the critical alien scholar to laugh heartily. Such a fit of risibility seized the biographer even when his honored friend, the secretary of the Constitution Commission of 1885, concluded his article in the Atlantic Monthly by telling the American people about what was universally referred to in Japan and, in faith 
(WECT MSS MCG 60), believed to be "the gift of the emperor to his people." Nevertheless, he who read this with a mind that has absorbed the history of England and the United States, commits a common though radical mistake. A portico is not a temple, for all constitutions, cabinets, parties, Diets, elections, and even the emperor, with the whole machinery of what looks like representative government, is the one supreme dominating force. It may be as hidden and invisible as the cosmic forces that produce earthquakes and tidal waves. Yet it dictates Japanese politics as surely as the nature of the atom dictates chemical reactions. In a word, Occidental civilization is based on the individual. Oriental civilization is founded on the bedrock of the family, with the force of a millennium of tradition behind it. The individual is nothing. The family, the lineage, is the all and in all. Visibly, beyond all revolutions in Japan from the dawn of history, is the figurehead of Mikado or Shogun, and in modern days, Emperor, Diet, constitution. In reality, the story is one of families—Fujiwara, Taira, Minamoto, Hojo, Ashikaga, and Tokugawa. Even in the revolution or restoration of 1868, it was the four great clans led by the Satsuma or Choshu clans that came into power with the Mikado as the oriflamme. Feudalism was abolished as to form. In spirit, it remained, simply transferring its emphasis of power, but the Elder Statesmen, the Genro, have ruled Japan ever since, and they did it by choosing their relatives or relatives' relatives to fill the offices and to hold power. Even today, one with the eye of the student sees under the maze of parties and politics more of the personal instincts of the clansmen than reason or real statesmanship. "The blood of the clan is thicker and warmer than the water of the constitution, Diet, or cabinet. The family idea in Japan is like the idea of the papacy governing all the Christianity that has issued from or that centers in the Eternal city on the Tiber. With this explanation, it will not, or ought not, seem any more strange. 
WEG MSS MCG 61. Regarding the status of the pupils in this first government school for girls, we found that nearly all of them, except two little maids of Imperial blood, were daughters of the cabinet officers, the new men in power, or their relatives. As illustrating the archaic form of society, probably a score of them were the children of concubines. Legislation has since greatly improved the status of the true wife and the offspring from her own body, but even yet filial piety is the supreme virtue, disobedience to father, and defiance of the family, the line, treason. Simply to state the facts of 1872 and to look at them in perspective is to show Japan's vast advance in morals, as well as in material prosperity. Yet it will probably take centuries to reconstruct the family upon wholly Christian lines. In a word, the fundamentalists of Japan will long hold the citadel of what they deem orthodoxy against the modernists, for certain Japanese inheritances are what His Holiness, the Pope, declares concerning what is taught by the Vatican - "irreformable." Apart from the winsome qualities in a thoroughly experienced teacher who loved both her task and the subjects of it, Quandril certainly improved the methods of teaching English and the pronunciation of it. She found that some had learned their letters from natives of Nippon, who began their mastery of foreign speech with the eye, by learning the graphic symbol before getting the correct sound from the lips of one to whom English was native. Hence, For example, the usual enunciation of the digits as follows: "I," "ni," "san," "shi," "go," "roku," "shichi," "hachi," "ku," "ju," etc., etc. We could hear through servants and others of both sexes whiffs of hostile criticism against the idea of educating girls, according to the foreign - but the term, which was later dubbed "missionary manners," we never heard, for at this time there were no schools in Tokyo conducted by missionaries. Yet any slight infringement, even to a hair's breadth, upon the then current ideas of propriety was seized upon as vigorously as Shakespeare tells us "trifles light as air are" by "the jealous mind." I, being masculine, was not surprised to have a hint indirectly conveyed that no male was expected to enter the sacred realms of feminine instruction. Yet no whisper of faultfinding was heard by us on any of the frequent occasions when the girls, numbering in the tens, came to our house for games or merry-making. On one occasion, having invited to dine with us the two daughters of the Premier Iwakura, we could see that while the elder sister, a beautiful young lady of eighteen with poise and grace, seemed to enjoy the foreign environment of persons, viands, furniture and possibly even the great curiosity - not altogether properly behaving - of an iron stove, burning Pennsylvania anthracite, the little maid of nine was scarcely at her ease. Especially, she was disconcerted when at first meeting the first foreign lady's kiss, from my sister, was misinterpreted as an intended bite. 
Osculation as a sign of love or friendship, being unknown, the child, who had probably heard as strange stories about us as we Americans were, and even yet, are accustomed to hear about them, thought cannibals were going to eat her up. Her sister was, however, able with partial success, to explain matters. To the Japanese, the American orgies of osculation seen on the films are horrible. Yet all sinister criticism and opposition, whether covert or open, faded away after Her Majesty, the Empress, visited the school and honored Quandril by her approval and intelligent questions, manifesting her interest and expressing her thanks to the American lady. Her Majesty even wrote a poem upon the theme of education which is still preserved as a national jewel. Neither of us had to wait until the Empress Naruko, consort of the great Emperor Meiji, to appreciate the excellence of character which this imperial lady possessed, until she had passed into the Great Silence, for we saw her first when a bride of but... years of age, and in only years of wifehood, and later quite often and from some very near her, learned of the beauty of her womanhood. Fond of poetry - as some might say the whole nation is - she has left some pretty sentiments and dainty conceits. It was a great day for both the little maidens and the younger ladies of the school when the Empress was so near them, and this event was long remembered by them. Yet even the mention of this august lady or her most worthy successor, mother of four princes, with the title universally now bestowed, as seen in perspective, does but reveal the progress of women in Japan. In those days of the early seventies, the usual title for the nation's head - august, venerable, century-old – was in the modern era, the term "Emperor" was supposed to be grand and worthy but already rather in shadow and certainly in less repute since Napoleon so abused it, and republics are more in fashion than monarchies. It may have been necessary, and in the wave of imperialism that rolled even to the verge of madness, the term "Emperor" certainly expressed not only the national feelings but the inmost reverence of the people, who looked upon their fellow countrymen as one great family and the head of the nation as its father. Indeed, though it seemed insular, parochial, and puerile to an alien, some of Japan's most learned as well as very wise individuals honestly found it difficult to reject or modify the ethnic religion and to accept or even tolerate one that was universal, whether Buddhism or Christianity. 
The former cultus was quite easy, however, not only because of the thousand years rooted in the soil but because Buddhism had absorbed the local gods into its own pantheon and because it was vitally allied to the throne. Majesty suffered no less. Nevertheless, in 1872, to apply any such honor or title to the Mikado's wife - the head of the female "Bidden Interior" - as "Empress" might have very probably provoked a free fight as surely as charging a man with being a Christian. Easily did the traditions die out which were linked with the custom of the head of every family reporting annually to the authorities that there were no Christian believers in the household. For centuries, the ceremony of trampling on the image of the crucified and the cross was... practiced. Among the wooden tablets hung up in every public place - denounce murder, robbery, or incendiaries and cruelty to widowers - was one especially prominent in denouncing the corrupt sect of "Jesuasion" (Jesuitism). Nor did the title of the Okogo San change easily to that of Empress. When the Mikado for the first time rode out in his carriage side by side with his wife, it created not only a sensation but a revolution in sentiment. It was as if the Archimedes of Japan had found the fulcrum on which to lift up all womanhood in the empire. Much praise is due to Tanaka Fujimaro, but a thousandfold more to the Christian missionaries of Japan, especially the brave pioneer women. Everlasting fame and honor to the Meiji Tenno and his wife, the Empress - never more so than when she gave public approval to the education of Huandrel arrived in Japan, her country's daughters, by the steamer [?], [?], and her brother met her on the dock. They traveled to Tokyo over the Tokaido or Eastern sea road, the railway not being yet finished. The day was very hot. In a land where some cover their bodies even in midsummer heat, into a land where the exposed human cuticle covered millions of square acres, where in the bathhouse the nude of both sexes took their daily tubbing, and most of the working people, male and female alike in the lower classes, when at their tasks, stripped to the waist. 
This, to the educated traveler, wrong in mind meant nothing immoral, nor did it suggest anything except to the ethnically ignorant. On this subject of summer clothing, the Japanese of 1872 were unconventional, not immoral. Occasionally, or in calling at a friend's house, I, a mere man, might meet or catch a glimpse of a daughter, wife, or mother seminude, but this, even to the chaste lady of pure mind, old or young, was certainly no more a social disturbance than to meet an American girlfriend with her shoes off, while it is both absolute knowledge and experience to say that at some of the ball costumes of our ladies in Yokohama and in Tokyo, even in 1870-74, made the Japanese ladies gasp. It is certain that, in our day, in exhibitions of cuticle, the bathing girls, both in the movies and at the sea shore, as well as ladies in full dress, Japanese and American femininity have exchanged places. It is equally certain that in the photographs (rotogravure?) or pictorial supplements of our Sunday newspapers in 
WEU PASS, American Christianity surprises the Japanese girls in missionary schools, though they are quite popular in the prostitutes' quarters. Moreover, the habit of kissing as a salutation, or pleasure taken, was unknown among the Japanese. In American moving pictures, the orgies of osculation seen on the film are usually cut out when reproduced on the screen; as descriptive as they are! It is to be hoped that the unsanitary custom of kissing babies and children on the lips, which so often means disease or death for the little ones, will be rejected by the Japanese. In addition, the proverbists remark that feline courting is noisy, is applied to the Harry and Harriet who make too public an exhibition of their cooing and billing. In a word, in dress, at least, morals (from mores, customs) are largely a matter of climate, and the heathen often shame us, and can and will, until we substitute for conglomerate Christianity the religion of Jesus. In their discrimination, differentiation, and evaluation of the one from the other, Japanese students of the New Testament are very keen. Mandril was handsomely treated by the parents and families of her pupils when the maidens came to marriage. She was often invited to inspect the trousseaux and on one or more occasions was even invited to the wedding ceremony - the Sansan-ku-do (mutual drinking or sipping of the sacramental cups of sake or rice wine three times three). One of her pupils most intimate with Mrs. Foot of the Mountain, or Mr. Holt-hill. Naturally, inquiry of Mandril was made by the girl concerning betrothal and marriage customs in America and Europe. What information may have satisfied the maiden has been forgotten or has not transpired, but one statement of fact to the prospective groom provoked an explosion of astonishment which revealed at once the basis of enduring civilization, explaining also the rationale of its stability and longevity - in filial piety. The lad's reply was like that of a certain psalmist, who declared that 'all the foundations of the earth are out of course.' Having explained the custom of individual courting and the crowning amounting to Foot's seemed less interested in this phase and more interested in what concerned the suitor's relations to his own male parent. 
I went on to satisfy the importunity of my Japanese young friend, who inquired eagerly as to what happened should the answer be negative. I then told him that often the pair married without parental consent, or that there was even an elopement. The face of the Japanese lad fairly blanched. 'Why,' said he, with an un-Japanese lack of self-repression, 'I cannot understand how a young man could love a girl when his father tells him not to.' That was the end of the argument to filial piety in the Japan of 1872. Has the situation radically changed? It has not. Many a well has been choked by the suicidal lovers who would marry against their parents' will. It is honestly difficult for the genuine Asiatic of any land to understand the Occidental, rather the Christian reverence for woman. Nor will this state of mind suffer profound change while civilization is communal and not individual, ancestor worship prevails, the family is everything and the particular person nothing. Nor is the female the only one in fetters. Even yet the average man is socially tied, hand and foot, in the family conclave. This fundamental fact, this background, as of mountains, as of rock, explain why the overwhelming majority of Christian church members in the large cities and at the seaports are away from home and distant from the ancestral graveyard, the village priest, and the old associations.
 Quandril soon found out from actual visits to the homes of her pupils - even though the civil code was not published until [insert year] and the superb interpretations and commentaries of Dr. Masujima - one of her brother's star pupils - did not see the light until [insert year] - that the Japanese family was not formed on the basis of the lines accepted in Christian lands. Often, such social structures were abhorrent to what is deepest in the race-life of Europe, whether Nordic or Mediterranean, Celtic or Teutonic. It was often more like a firm or corporation organized for business. The marriage tie and relation had no connection with religion but were purely a civil bond. It was and is quite an unstable relation, as in this modern age, so prolific in the horrors of divorce. Marriage is in the United States, where our nation suffers from the ancient and chronic diseases of federalism. In the normal Japanese family, sons must be born, or else adoption is resorted to in order to keep up the family line by name only, but not by blood reality. In one family of seven sons, six might be adopted into other houses or lines. In fact, it is the house and name, not the person, that continues. Even when in 1912 the hero of Port Arthur died without children and especially requested that his name and family might die out, the government interfered and nominated an heir who took the name of Jogi and played the role of a 'resurrectionist.' One can easily imagine the legal complications growing out of this state of affairs. In the new civil code, so ably expounded by Dr. Masujima, one-third of the space is taken up with adoption. This code, elaborated after many years of study by Boushuet, the eminent French legist, based on the Code Napoleon, was rejected. No better key to the penetralia of Japanese politics can be found or made than a knowledge of Japan's social system, which dominates government, administration, party politics, the press, religion, and morals. Older and stronger than all, a knowledge of this family system is crucial.
In the Japanese capital, Quandril soon found many souls for whom Christianity was to try and lead to higher planes of life, and she rejoiced that they were so responsive, while she perceived that Japan had as much to give as America had to bestow. Space does not allow the enumeration of the gifts and graces and benefits received by our fellow Americans from Japan - Japanese art, manners, appliances, adaptations, inventions, and culture - that have brightened our homes and enriched our inheritances, though we miss much. On this theme, a volume could be written. This is true even though the man of the international mind, such as Jesus possessed, bows his head in shame at the treatment in diplomacy and the several instances of our violation of treaties with the natives of the Far East. The white man does not like the idea of any human being of darker skin than his own being his equal, even though he and his ancestors borrowed their religion and most of the fundamental inventions from Asia. To be delivered even in part from the bonds of race antipathy and the ignorance that fetters even our senators was a matter of prayer and thankfulness to Quandril.
What was the religion of this woman who lived unselfishly, faithfully, and so as to inspire others to high ideals and noble actions? What was her inner unseen life , her outward walk? Whose who knew her or came under her influence judged or felt themselves judged by her example - for all of us exert an influence, whether conscious or unconscious, and of the two forces, the unconscious is often, if not usually, the greater. 'For knowest thou, what argument, Thy Life to thy neighbor's creed hath lent.' One word more than any other expresses her inner life, whence, as from a fountain, the fertilizing stream flowed. Do we ask what was the theme and the word which formed the first lines of the New Testament, as written by Paul to the Thessalonians? After the salutation to the new Christians, the word is 'thanks'. In her journals, kept for sixty years or more, the spirit of thankfulness breathes on every page. Gratitude to God for all she enjoys is the dominant note in every entry. What mattered the form? Steadfastly faithful to her own church, she could and she did worship God with Hebrews and with Christians of every name. Cultivated were her tastes, strong her preferences. True as a magnet to the pole, her faith in Jesus the Christ of God. 
Yet under all forms of human aspiration, she could discern the meaning and spirit, the motive of the worshiper, the sure acceptance by the Father of all who sincerely seek Him and who prove their sincerity before men by working righteousness. Her choice in literature that furnished food for mind and spirit was that of the standard sort which revealed the soul of a nation. Yet, while she occasionally read works of purely theological import, her constant study was in the Bible. In fact, several of the bound volumes of this encyclopedia of scriptural truths were worn out in her lifetime. Not content with the English version and new translations that came out from time to time, she enjoyed the French, German, and Italian versions. Under good teachers, she enjoyed mightily the perusal of the choicest of the historical, prophetic, and poetic passages. Occasionally attending synagogue services, she could recognize many of the most famous sentences. While listening to such readers as Murdoch, Boulton, and others who interpreted vocally, her delight often reached rapture. As on education, she laid great stress on that proper reading which classic literature deserves. Yet in her was illustrated that law of the soul, viz. that in the finer things of the spirit, especially in art, which is the sublimated image of life, we are able to enjoy exactly to the degree that we are able to suffer. Sloppily inaccurate or irreverent readings of holy scripture, whether in the pulpit or on ordinary occasions, gave her exquisite pain, even more than a discord in music. Probably at times, a discord in a great composition for instruments, when purposely made by a composer, made more keen her appreciation of what approached excellence or printed a glowing picture upon her memory. I am sure that what she appraised most in a sermon was that fine art of the preacher which served but as a reflector to the divine light of the original, which penetrated her inmost soul. Her own sense of sin and heartache - continual and profound - and her view of the unspeakable holiness, a sense of unworthiness before God, that was overpowering and often caused commotion in her soul, yet, when most sincere, was followed invariably by an assurance of the divine peace and power that would be given her to face the duties of life. Certainly, this was always done with thankfulness for the continued gifts flowing unstintedly from the overflowing fountain of all good. It is to be doubted whether, of the millions that 'Praise God from whom all blessings flow,' there were many that, in the very core of being, felt more keenly, more rapturously these ancient words.
In the last days of her stay in Japan, she could say, 'My cup runneth over.' The initial experiment of a government school for girls had been entirely successful. The value of mental training in the preparation of efficient and cultured womanhood in Japan had been demonstrated. The way was now opened for a nationwide system of public schools on a national scale in which girls should have equal opportunity with boys. In preparation for this, the Department of Education, having now the Imperial approval and support, resolved upon an enterprise that, for national unity and advancement, should do for the female half of the populace what had been demonstrated by and for the males. It must be remembered that the problem confronting the new Japan of 1870 was much like that set before our fathers in 1787. Under the very defective Articles of Confederation, the thirteen colonies were suffering from too much unregulated independence, with hostile tariffs, rampant sectionalism, and a general lack of unity. There was yet no real nation, except on paper. In order to form a more perfect union, the Constitution of 1787 became a vital necessity. The task of the young men of 1868 - most of them trained under American missionaries and reinforced by the Oyomei philosophy and centuries of native thought - was to unite the nation, long purposely divided into the factions of feudalism, not only under one seat of authority but in real nationality. Yet, in 1872, the feudal system had been abolished in form, rather than reality. The people of the old petty principalities, numbering nearly three hundred, were submerged under age-old prejudices and local customs. Out of these, they must be lifted into modern life. Hostile and ever-divisive sectionalism must be kneaded into one definite unity if Japan was to become a strong nation and able to resist Occidental aggression. 
For this enterprise of national solidarity, women must be summoned to the task. Such cooperation by women was all the more essential in a communal civilization, in which the family is everything and the individual next to nothing. It is a fundamental fact that more than any one element explains the politics of Japan - so mysterious to a foreigner and so much misunderstood by Occidentals.
Now, in the case of the boys and young men, they had been called from all the provinces to the capital and taught in the one Imperial University, to the vast strengthening and general benefit of the new government. Such a school for the female half of the empire, long desired and now planned by the Department of Education, had the same end in view - national unity and power through educated women. To be the principal of this large school, which was to have buildings on a scale commensurate with the purpose in view, Quandril was invited. Mr. David Murray, the competent American adviser, and the Minister of Education waited upon her and urged her acceptance. For this new task, one with old experience was needed, and the fact of Quandril's recent journeyings through the various provinces was urged as a special element of fitness. The proposal was most alluring, but with both brother and sister, the problem was not one of mere personal choice or desire, nor yet of one between duties. The question of working out a career in one's homeland or in the Orient pressed. At about the same time, the Department of Education offered the professorship of physics and chemistry in the new University of Kyoto. It was finally and mutually decided to return to America and there await the indications of Providence. If within six months from the completion of his theological curriculum, no pressing call came to labor in America, both would return to Japan for life.
It turned out that Quandril was soon after her arrival in Philadelphia, her native city, quickly called to the newly started Philadelphia Seminary at 1325 North Broad St. Her brother, after a year or more spent in writing his book, "The Mindo Island Empire," entered Union Seminary. After two years, in May 1877, the path of duty was made clear by a unanimous and enthusiastic call to the First Reformed Church in Schenectady.
On May 10, 187?, our garden was rich in the blooms of roses and other homegrown flowers alongside the native wisterias and cherry blossoms - a fitting emblem of American and Japanese friendship. May we hope for politicians who mistake selfishness and sectionalism never to rupture or transform it into hate. Yet, the home-born petals and colors seemed to point to the homeland as well, and the decision was made. Those last days in Japan's capital city were among the best. The pages of Quandril's diary tell the story of delights.
At the Union Church in Tsukiji, on one Sunday, the brilliant scholar-missionary David Crosby Greene preached. There we also met the veteran who first showed the fundamental connections of ancient Japanese with the Semitic and Hindu tongues - linguistics and history, Dr. David Thompson. Besides his wedding, we saw joy joining hands and hearts - Mr. Edward R. Miller and Miss... Kidder. The latter succeeded Mrs. J.C. Hepburn, the first foreign missionary teacher of Japanese girls. Often, Professor M.M. Scott, afterwards superintendent of schools in Honolulu until 1922, and Mr... Hipman, who was in one of the American firms at Yokohama, would come for tea with us. In 1923, I dined at the Commodore Hotel in New York City with Mr... Hipman, meeting the President of a Canadian college but soon to be called to Colgate University.
One evening, a company of five or six high Japanese officers dined with us, and we spent the evening discussing the pressing problems of civilization. They were most eager to learn and to profit from the experiences of America and Europe. The example of General Grant and President Lincoln in generously treating the brave Confederates was especially appealing, and I found out later that it was potent for good, as an imitation of a noble example.
At Yokohama, the officers of "La belle frigate" - as the French designated the U.S.S.S. Hartford - invited us for a tiffin or lunch on board. I recalled their visits from admirals to midshipmen to our home in Tokyo when, to see the sights, I acted as a cicerone, having already helped my American and other tourists and visitors seek out and enjoy the showplaces by writing and publishing "The Yokohama Guide," "The Tokyo Guide," and "Map of Tokyo" with notes, historical and explanatory. I also added to their enjoyment in America, during the next decade of years, the liberal transfer of the text and substance into the many ephemeral books about Japan was amusingly abundant in both volume and transformation. As for the original fairy tale, it was copied into five or six compilations and deemed by the borrowers as highly representative of Japanese genius.
Among the calls made that interested us was one upon two recently arrived enlistment missionaries, a man and his wife. They told us of a rare curiosity, an unusual human document. Two social phenomena must be explained. So accustomed were the Japanese to self-repression, that usually when an American or English lady lost her temper and put herself under the microscope while scolding her native servants, as an angry person does, the native girl would usually burst out laughing. So novel was the sight of a lady losing control of herself, including her reserve, in anger. At the opposite pole, their native servant maid, in this case, when angered, stamped her foot, glared, and said a few words - so different from the usual poise and calmness of the children of Nippon. Evidently, however, in this case, there was a reversion to the native mythology, for this vixen resembled, in disposition, "The Heavenly Alastrynian Female" with whom in the native lore we had become acquainted, though rarely meeting her double in common life. Curiously enough, such a person of hot tongue and incandescent temper might be called a fox-woman, just as our Anglo-Saxon forebears named the scolding woman - a she-fox.
Among notable dinners attended was that given by the Americans in the commission who had come out to develop the resources of the Yezo or northern islands called collectively Hokkaido (Northern Sea Gate). The good results of the labors of these gentlemen, once so scoffed at by British residents, are visible today and have been gratefully acknowledged by the Japanese. In the geological survey, millions of dollars were saved from foolish experimenting and profitless mining, while attention was directed to the oil, coal, and fisheries. The improvement of livestock, the laying out on American lines of the capital city of Sapporo, in which is the Imperial University, tells how faithfully these professional men labored. They were General Horace Capron, U.S.A. of New York State, Major Winfield, once C.S.A. officer, Drs. Thomas Antisell and Stewart Eldredge, Benjamin S. Lyman and Henry Munroe Smith. There was a Prof. R.H. Smith mentioned on pp. 609 and 611 in appendices of early editions of Mikado's Empire, all of whom made good records in science, especially the last three. Among the guests also was the brilliant musician, Dr. William Adams Brown of Oxford, correspondent of the Tokyo Times. Edward E. House, author of books on Japan and founder of "The Tokyo Times," - of too short a life. His wit and sparkling conversation made him always welcome in the homes of the Americans in the capital. General Capron seemed quite eager to have me enter the service of the Kai Taku Shi (Bureau for the Development of Yezo) and go with him into this region of the empire, but the call of home and work in America was too strong and I declined.
The crowning gastronomic and social event in these final days was the dinner tendered by the Department of Education to the foreign servants in the University. Six nationalities in Europe, America, and Asia were represented, and the speeches made in several languages were duly interpreted. Mrs. Kanaka was the only Japanese lady present.
Among the most interesting among the many callers was Dr. Samuel Robbins Brown of the Oriental University, who in 1828 initiated American education in China. With him was Yung Wing, one of his early pupils, one of the three brought to America, educated at Monson, Mass., and at Yale University. Having started under so superb a teacher as Dr. Brown, he took the prize in English composition at Yale. He was in high spirits, for he had received, under the Imperial vermilion pencil, the order to have one hundred and twenty Chinese lads educated in America. I met him a few days later at Yokohama, on the deck of the steamer bound for the United States. Waving the Imperial document, he gloated over the fact that "at last Old China was moving."
One other link with China, in herself a living prophecy of a reborn China, was a sweet little girl of nine, Yamei Kin. She was the orphan daughter of a native Christian pastor who was being brought up by Mrs. and Dr. D. Bethune McCartee, who had been a pioneer forty years at Ningpo, serving at intervals as U.S. Consul there. Very bright and attractive, she attended the Sunday School class taught by Handel in our home. She lived to be the first Chinese woman fully educated in medicine. She was graduated from the Woman's Medical College in Philadelphia, and later in Peking became the chief director of the hospitals for women. I had the pleasure of dining with her in Ithaca, N.Y. in the year 1900.
Other calls were from the American envoy, Hon. John A. Bingham, who led in Congress the impeachment proceedings against President Johnson; the famous N.Y. Herald correspondent Mr. Weiler, whose message borne by relays of native runners to Kagoshima of the burning of the steamer His American, in the harbor of Yokohama, affected powerfully the stock market in New York and that of the Pacific Mail Company - a great journalistic feat; Admirals - John Rodgers, Thornton A. Jenkins; and the two officers who in early days had served under Farragut, John Crittenden Watson and Colby Chester. Both these men of high Christian character were among the comparatively few naval officers who always set a high value on Christian missionary work among the Japanese and were generous helpers. The chief reason why this was so is very simple. Those who know by actual examination, taking the trouble to find out the facts, are in an overwhelming majority favorable to Christian missionary work. For the opinion of mere commercial travelers, tourists, gossips at clubs and hotels, in a word, for those whose tastes are antipodal and even inimical to pure religion, lack practical acquaintance and are ignorant, there is no coin struck in the United States mint that expresses the real value of their judgments on missions. It was because she knew so well the realities in the case - the shadows as well as the sunshine in the work that Handel was so hearty a supporter and loyal to the final command of her Master.
This was the last page of the manuscript in the package.) I couldn't find the exact place for this page, but it obviously belongs with CGI's sojourn at Meriwether Landing, Tenn. in 1850-9. It seemed strange to her - and she tried to enter into the psychology of the subject - that, whereas in the North there was a great sympathy with the black people in slavery, there was also a strong race repulsion. Some famous champions of freedom for the slaves could not bear, or at least I did not, have negroes near them. On the contrary, in the South, while the social gulf between master and servant was an abyss, the personal repulsion was slight. Black mammys, nurses, valets, barbers, playmates, and even, as in the North, blood relatives, though unacknowledged, were common. Despite the separation in law and custom of the social status of the races, there was in the South little or no actual repulsion.
